 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of the Industry  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what fire 
suppression systems are, where they are installed and how they work. 
 
The first modern version of a fire suppression system was installed at London’s Theatre 
Royal in 1812.  It involved an airtight reservoir containing 100 tons of water that would 
feed into smaller pipes pierced with holes, thus creating a sprinkler effect. The first 
commercial sprinkler system was then invented in 1874 by Henry S. Parmalee in 
Connecticut to protect his piano shop. If a fire broke out, the heat would shatter a bulb 
placed within each individual sprinkler head and release water.2  
 
Currently, the use of fire suppression systems is ubiquitous. They serve as effective 
methods for fighting the onset of fires before they spread and cause harm to people or 
property. Sprinklers, for example, react quickly to reduce heat, flames, and smoke, 
which provides individuals an opportunity to evacuate. In homes that do not have 
systems, a fire may grow to perilous levels before emergency services arrive.  
 
Fire sprinkler systems typically contain networks of pipes supplied with water and 
sprinkler heads fitted at recommended intervals. Sprinkler heads can be placed in 
various locations in a building such as ceilings or side walls.3 Typically, sprinklers over 
the fire should be the only heads that activate. The others remain closed to limit 
damage and reduce the amount of water needed. 
 
Because sprinkler systems are used in numerous settings, different types have 
developed over time. Each type has its own unique set of characteristics that protect 
the type of building and property where it is installed. Common sprinkler systems 
include:4 
 
• Wet pipe, 
• Dry pipe,  
• Pre-action, and 
• Deluge. 
 
 
2 IFSEC Insider. A History of Fire Sprinklers. Retrieved September 10, 2025, from 
https://www.ifsecglobal.com/fire-news/a-history-of-fire-sprinklers/ 
3 International Fire and Security Exhibition and Conference. Fire sprinkler systems: A beginner’s guide. Retrieved 
September 10, 2025, from https://www.ifsecglobal.com/fire-sprinkler-systems 
4 National Fire Protection Association. Sprinkler System Basics: Types of Sprinkler Systems. Retrieved September 
10, 2025, from https://www.nfpa.org/news-blogs-and-articles/blogs/2021/03/26/sprinkler-system-basics-types-
of-sprinkler-systems 
