 
 
9 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
The Colorado Fire Suppression Registration and Inspection Program (Program) began on 
January 1, 1991. The Program is housed in the state’s Division of Fire Prevention and 
Control (Division). The purpose of the Program is to make sure that life safety systems 
installed in buildings are installed and maintained according to nationally recognized 
standards. 
 
The Program underwent a sunset review in 2005. In addition to continuing the Program, 
the 2005 sunset review recommended that the Division should implement a formal 
recordkeeping system to track complaints and final dispositions, and that the Division 
should be able to issue letters of admonition. All of these recommendations were 
adopted by the General Assembly. 
 
Another sunset review took place in 2013. The sunset review recommended continuing 
the Program and creating a new registration category for residential fire suppression 
system contractors, both of which were accepted by the General Assembly under House 
Bill 14-1221. 
 
The next sunset review occurred in 2018. It recommended continuing the Program until 
2026. The General Assembly agreed with this recommendation and made no other 
changes that year. 
 
In 2022, the Division created a new registration classification known as Fire Suppression 
System Contractor – Premanufactured. Premanufactured contractors are persons or 
companies performing work on systems that were already installed in factory-built 
structures. 
 
