 
 
21 | P a g e 
• It must obtain any local permits; and 
• Its working plans and hydraulic calculations for the job have been reviewed and 
approved by the Division or a certified local fire suppression inspector. 
 
Plan review fees are calculated based on the total project valuation. Fees for projects 
with a total project valuation of $5,000 or less are subject to a flat fee of $800. For 
projects with a higher valuation, the base fee is $800 plus a fee equal to 0.0025 times 
the total project valuation.101  
 
The table below shows the number of plan reviews that took place in the five fiscal 
years examined. 
 
 
 
Figures in Table 6 illustrate only the plan reviews the Division conducted and do not 
include the number of inspections and plan reviews conducted by local authorities 
qualified to do so. Because the COVID-19 pandemic caused halts in construction 
throughout the state, the number of plan reviews significantly dropped in fiscal year 
20-21. Many of the plans submitted were withdrawn as construction projects were 
uncertain or cancelled. Plan reviews can take anywhere from four to 18 weeks to 
complete, depending on the size of the project and the number of pending reviews. 
The Division attempts to complete reviews within 12 weeks.  However, this can become 
constrained by lack of resources. As such, stakeholders have reported processing times 
of up to 18 weeks, which might cause delays in construction projects. 
 
 
Registrations 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
Any individual or company that employs persons to physically work on a fire protection 
system needs to be registered as a contractor.102 Applicants must be the principal of 
 
101 8 CCR § 1507-11-11.2, Fire Suppression Program Rules. 
102 8 CCR § 1507-11-3.1, Fire Suppression Program Rules. 
