 
 
35 | P a g e 
an assembly of any or all of the following: Piping valves, conduits, 
dispersal openings, sprinkler heads, orifices, and other similar devices 
that convey extinguishing agents for the purpose of controlling, confining, 
or extinguishing fire, with the exception of multipurpose residential fire 
sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses that 
are part of the potable water supply, pre-engineered range hoods, duct 
systems, and portable fire extinguishers. 
 
Pre-engineered range hoods, which are placed in kitchens over items like stovetops and 
ovens, are also considered a mechanism to control fires according to stakeholders. 
These are not included in the definition above, and the Division does not register 
contactors who specialize in pre-engineered systems. 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, there were 763 registered fire suppression contractors and 357 
certified inspectors. The Division conducted 148 plan reviews, and 211 inspections in 
that year. A total of 28 complaints were made, and 19 of them resulted in disciplinary 
action. If systems throughout the state suffer a noticeable decline in the quality of 
design plans, installations, or inspections, the Division could take a more aggressive 
stance on administering fines and imposing discipline. Thus, the Program enhances 
public protection by reviewing plans, inspecting installations and regulating those 
involved in such activities. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. The second criterion asks whether the conditions that led 
to the initial creation of the program, have changed, and whether other conditions have 
arisen that would affect the degree of governmental oversight provided. 
 
Extensive training is required to understand how to work with fire suppression systems. 
The ramifications from improper installation or inspection of fire sprinklers, for 
example, are obvious. Without the Program, Colorado would have no method of 
ensuring these life-saving systems are designed, installed, or inspected properly. To 
ensure the vital protection of buildings, their contents, and occupants, the General 
Assembly should continue the Program for 11 years, until 2037. This period is 
appropriate given there are no other statutory recommendations being made in this 
report. 
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Make a Technical Amendment to the Act. 
 
The Act contains outdated language that should be revised to reflect current 
terminology and administrative practices. Therefore, the General Assembly should 
amend the Act to address the following technical issue:  
 
• Amend the Act to make it gender neutral by replacing terms such as “him”, 
“her”, “he”, and “she” with gender-neutral terms. 
 
