 
 
36 | P a g e 
Administrative Recommendation 1 — The Division should take steps to notify 
the public that they can access information regarding complaints made to the 
Division. 
 
Regulation by the Program commenced on January 1, 1991. Since the inception of the 
Program, there has been constant concern regarding recordkeeping, tracking, and 
publishing data regarding complaints and their final dispositions.  
 
The 1997, 2005, and 2014 sunset reports each noted deficiencies with regards to 
complaint tracking and publishing. The 2018 sunset report highlighted that a year of 
data was not available, hence, that report again recommended a shorter window for 
continuation. It stated that,166 
 
…because the [Division] continues to have problems keeping track of data 
necessary to evaluate a regulatory program, the General Assembly should 
continue the program for only seven years, until 2026.  
 
During the current sunset review, the Division was able to present significantly more 
information to properly assess and conduct a sunset review. Data regarding licensing 
information, complaints, and discipline was available for the five fiscal years examined 
under the scope of the review. Stakeholders have also noted a marked improvement.  
However, there were suggestions that the Division could now improve on publishing and 
disseminating information to the public regarding complaint information. 
 
The Division has made marked improvements in this area. Starting in 2025, the Division 
began posting a Complaint Report on its website. The Complaint Report displays all 
complaints received by the Division regarding fire suppression contractors, along with 
their status of disposition.167 However, given the stakeholder input, it is not clear how 
much the public knows about this report. The Division also issues a quarterly newsletter 
on its website. But these do not provide historical information about complaints. 
 
Providing readily available information about the disciplinary activity of any regulatory 
agency is important for a number of reasons. It creates clear and open communication 
with the public, which is important to preserving the public’s trust. Moreover, openly 
publishing this information may also help to discourage misconduct. Not only will 
contractors have a better understanding of the type of conduct that may result in 
enforcement, but they will also have a better understanding of the consequences of 
noncompliance. 
 
Making the public aware of the Complaint Report can also help to encourage public 
participation. For instance, if a consumer has serious concerns about a contractor, one 
 
166 Colorado Office of Policy, Research, and Regulatory Reform. 2018 Sunset Review: Colorado Fire Suppression 
Registration and Inspection Program. Retrieved October 5, 2025, from 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Bb_N8R87o4WUJXinHo8bjLR4sphYZN6s/view 
167 Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control. Reporting or Complaints/Violations. Retrieved September 10, 
2025, from https://dfpc.colorado.gov/FLSreporting-or-violations 
