Executive Order D 2026 010 
July 29, 2026 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
The Sheep Head Fire and associated impacts constitute a disaster emergency 
under C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq. The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of 
June 30, 2026, declaring a disaster emergency, is hereby memorialized by this 
Executive Order and shall have the full force and effect of law as if it were 
contained within this Executive Order. 
B. 
The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of June 30, 2026, activated the State 
Emergency Operations Plan. All State departments and agencies are authorized to 
take whatever actions may be required and requested by the Director or their 
delegate of the Office of Emergency Management pursuant to the State 
Emergency Operations Plan, including provision of appropriate staff and 
equipment, as necessary. 
C. 
Further, pursuant to C.R.S. § 28-3-104, this Executive Order hereby memorializes 
the Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of June 30, 2026, authorizing employing 
unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard to support fire suppression and 
response efforts as deemed necessary by the Colorado Department of Public 
Safety for the Sheep Head Fire, and the Lieutenant Governor’s verbal 
authorization has the full force and effect of law as if it were contained within this 
Executive Order. 
D. 
I direct State agencies to pursue all available federal funding for response and 
recovery operations. 
E. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-706(4)(b), funds in the Disaster Emergency Fund 
(DEF) are insufficient to pay for fire suppression, response, consequence 
management, mitigation, and recovery efforts related to the Sheep Head Fire. 
Therefore, I order that one million two hundred sixty thousand dollars 
($1,260,000) be transferred from the State Emergency Reserve Cash Fund 
(SERCF) to the DEF. I encumber one million two hundred sixty thousand dollars 
($1,260,000) in the DEF to pay for fire suppression, response, consequence 
management, mitigation, and recovery efforts related to the Sheep Head Fire. 
F. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-705.4(5), the Director of the OEM is authorized and 
directed to allocate the funding described in Section II(E) to the appropriate 
government agencies and nonprofit organizations and execute awards, purchase 
orders, or other mechanisms to effect the allocation of funds. The funds described 
in Section II(E) above shall remain available for this purpose until seventy-two  
 
