CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
2 
3.03 
“AVIS Corridor” means a street, highway, or interstate that the state, county, or municipality 
designates as an AVIS Corridor on which an AVIS may be located to detect violations of local 
traffic regulations or a traffic violation under state law, including, but not limited to, speed 
violations. The Department will evaluate and establish AVIS Corridors through an engineering 
investigation that illustrates justification through data collected within the past five years, incidents 
of crashes, speeding, reckless driving, or community complaints on state, US, and interstate 
highways designated as an AVIS Corridor, in addition to operations, speed compliance, and 
geometric analysis. The authority will remain with the Department's Chief Engineer for AVIS 
Corridors. 
3.04 
“Civil Penalty Assessment” means the amount of money assessed against a Responsible Party in 
the Notice of Violation or Civil Penalty Assessment Notice. 
3.05 
“Civil Penalty Assessment Notice” means a notice sent to a Responsible Party not later than thirty 
(30) days after the deadline for payment of Notice of Violation identified therein. 
3.06 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Transportation and the state of Colorado as 
defined in section 42-4-110.5(1.1)(b), CRS. 
3.07 
“Deploy” means utilizing an AVIS within a designated corridor, Work Zone, or school zone to 
detect traffic violations. Deploy does not include moving, relocating, replacing, or securing an 
AVIS within an already established designated corridor, Work Zone, or school zone. 
3.08 
“Hearing Officer Final Order” means a final order entered by an impartial Hearing Officer 
regarding liability for Civil Penalties. 
3.09  
“Hearing Officer” means a person authorized to conduct a hearing under section 24-4-105(3), 
C.R.S. and 42-4-110.5(2.5)(IV). 
3.10 
“Install” means bringing an AVIS into service within a designated corridor, Work Zone, or school 
zone to detect speed or traffic violations. Install does not include moving an AVIS within an 
established designated corridor, Work Zone, or school zone. 
3.11 
“Notice of Violation” means a notice issued to the Responsible Party if the Department detects 
any alleged violation of a county or municipal traffic regulation or a traffic violation under state law 
through an AVIS. 
3.12 
“Program” means the program created by the Department in these rules, as required by section 
42-4-110.5 C.R.S., for the use AVIS on state highways and the Department’s prioritization for the 
use of AVIS by other entities on state highways. 
3.13 
“Reasonable and Prudent” means the designated speed on any segment of street, highway, or 
interstate whether posted on a static regulatory speed sign or on a variable speed limit regulatory 
sign. 
3.14 
“Responsible Party” means the registered owner of vehicle within any state. If the registered 
owner of vehicle is engaged in the business of leasing or renting motor vehicles, such registered 
owner is liable for payment of the Civil Penalty, even if the motor vehicle in question was leased 
or rented at the time of the violation. 
3.15 
“Vendor” means the third-party contractor providing AVIS infrastructure and services to the 
Department. 
3.16 
“Warning Notice” means the document that will be sent for a violation or violations detected by an 
AVIS during the Warning Period. 
