CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
3 
3.17 
“Warning Period” means the first thirty (30) days after a new AVIS is installed or deployed, or as 
may be extended by the Department, during which only Warning Notices will be issued. 
3.18 
“Work Zone” means a highway maintenance, repair, or construction area where maintenance, 
repair, or construction activity is taking place or will be taking place as designated by signage as 
required in section 42-4-614, C.R.S. 
4.00 
Warning Period and Warning Notices 
4.01 
There shall be a Warning Period after a new AVIS is installed or deployed. 
4.01.1 For the first thirty (30) days after an AVIS is installed or deployed, only Warning Notices may be 
issued for alleged violations of a county or municipal traffic regulation or traffic violation under 
state law detected by an AVIS. 
4.01.2 The Warning Period may be extended beyond the first thirty (30) days if the Department publicly 
announces the extension including when the Warning Period will end and when the Department 
will begin to issue Notice(s) of Violation. 
4.01.3 During any Warning Period, only one Warning Notice per motor vehicle per Responsible Party will 
be issued, regardless of the number of violations in the same AVIS Corridor, Work Zone, or 
school zone. 
4.01.4 Each new AVIS deployed in a Work Zone, school zone, or AVIS Corridor will have at least a 
thirty-day Warning Period. 
4.01.5 Each specific Work Zone, school zone, or AVIS Corridor deployment will have a separate 
Warning Period. 
4.02 
 
Warning Notices 
4.02.1 A Warning Notice must be sent to the Responsible Party by first-class mail, personal service, or 
by any mail delivery service offered by an entity other than the US postal service that is 
equivalent to or superior to first-class mail with respect to delivery speed, reliability, and price, 
within the following timeframes: 
1. 
Thirty (30) days after the alleged violation occurred if the motor vehicle involved in the 
alleged violation is registered in the state of Colorado; or 
2. 
Sixty (60) days after the alleged violation occurs if the motor vehicle involved in the 
alleged violation is registered outside of the state of Colorado. 
4.02.2 The Warning Notice must contain: 
1. 
The name and address of the Responsible Party involved in the alleged violation; 
2. 
The license plate number and issuing state of the motor vehicle involved in the alleged 
violation; and 
3. 
The date, time, and location of the alleged violation. 
5.00 
Notice of Violation 
5.01 
A Notice of Violation shall be issued in the event of an alleged violation after any applicable 
Warning Notices as provided under Rule 4.02. 
