CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
4 
5.02 
A Notice of Violation shall be sent to the Responsible Party by first-class mail, personal service, 
or by any mail delivery service offered by an entity other than the U.S. postal service that is 
equivalent to or superior to first-class mail with respect to delivery speed, reliability, and price, 
within the following timeframes: 
1. 
Within thirty (30) days after the alleged violation occurred if the motor vehicle involved in 
the alleged violation is registered in Colorado; or 
2. 
Within sixty (60) days after the alleged violation occurs if the motor vehicle involved in the 
alleged violation is registered outside of Colorado. 
5.03 
The Notice of Violation must contain: 
1. 
The name and address of the Responsible Party involved in the alleged violation; 
2. 
The license plate number and issuing state of the motor vehicle involved in the alleged 
violation; 
3. 
The date, time, and location of the alleged violation; 
4. 
A description of the alleged violation. 
5. 
The amount of the Civil Penalty prescribed for the alleged violation; 
6. 
The deadline for payment of the prescribed Civil Penalty and for filing an Answer 
disputing the alleged violation and requesting a hearing; and 
7. 
Information on how the Responsible Party may either file an Answer disputing the alleged 
violation and request a hearing or pay the prescribed Civil Penalty. 
5.04 
Failure to file an Answer requesting a hearing within forty-five (45) days of the issuance of the 
Notice of Violation will waive the Responsible Party’s right to a hearing and the right to contest 
the violation itself, the type of Civil Penalty assessed, or the prescribed Civil Penalty amount. 
5.05 
Leasing or Renting: A Responsible Party that is engaged in the business of leasing or renting a 
motor vehicle(s) is liable for payment of the Civil Penalty, even if the registered owner was not 
driving the motor vehicle. In such cases, the registered owner of the vehicle may obtain payment 
from the lessor or renter of the motor vehicle and remit payment to the Department via phone, 
mail, or online. The registered owner of the vehicle’s inability to collect or delay in collecting 
payment from the lessor or renter will not be a defense to payment of the Civil Penalty by the 
Responsible Party within the deadline prescribed in the Notice of Violation. 
6.00 
Civil Penalty Assessment Notice 
6.01 
If the Department does not receive payment for the amount in the Notice of Violation or a written 
Answer requesting a hearing to dispute the alleged violation(s) by the deadline stated in the 
Notice of Violation, the Department or its Vendor shall issue a Civil Penalty Assessment Notice. 
6.02 
A Civil Penalty Assessment Notice shall be sent by mail to the Responsible Party by first-class 
mail, personal service, or by any mail delivery service offered by an entity other than the US 
postal service that is equivalent to or superior to first-class mail with respect to delivery speed, 
reliability, and price, to the Responsible Party no later than thirty (30) days after the deadline to 
pay or Answer listed in the Notice of Violation. 
6.03 
The Civil Penalty Assessment Notice must contain: 
