CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
5 
1. 
The name and address of the Responsible Party involved in the alleged violation; 
2. 
The license plate and issuing state of the motor vehicle involved in the alleged violation; 
3. 
The date, time, and location of the alleged violation; 
4. 
A description of the alleged violation. 
5. 
The amount of the Civil Penalty prescribed for the alleged violation; 
6. 
The deadline for payment of the prescribed Civil Penalty; and 
7. 
Information on how to pay the prescribed Civil Penalty. 
6.04 
If the Responsible Party fails to pay in full the prescribed Civil Penalty by the deadline stated in 
the Civil Penalty Assessment Notice, a Final Order shall be entered against the Responsible 
Party. 
7.00 
Amount of Civil Penalties 
The following amount of Civil Penalty applies to each Violation Type: 
7.01 
Violations within the Warning Period: For the first thirty (30) days after AVIS is installed or 
deployed, only warnings may be issued for violations of a county or municipal traffic regulation or 
traffic violation under state law detected by AVIS. 
7.02 
School Zones: For vehicles traveling ten (10) miles per hour or more but less than twenty-five 
(25) miles per hour over the Reasonable and Prudent speed in an active school zone, all 
violations will be seventy-five (75) dollars. 
7.03 
Work Zones: For vehicles traveling ten (10) miles per hour or more but less than twenty-five (25) 
miles per hour over the Reasonable and Prudent speed, all violations in a Work Zone will be 
seventy-five (75) dollars. 
7.04 
Designated AVIS Corridors: For vehicles traveling ten (10) miles per hour or more but less than 
twenty-five (25) miles per hour over the Reasonable and Prudent speed in a Designated AVIS 
Corridor, all violations will be forty (40) dollars. 
7.05 
The Department reserves the right to provide information, upon request, to applicable law 
enforcement regarding any vehicles traveling twenty-five (25) miles per hour or more over the 
Reasonable and Prudent speed as captured by an AVIS. 
8.00 
Answering a Notice of Violation 
8.01 
The Responsible Party may submit a written Answer requesting a hearing within forty-five (45) 
days from issuance of the Notice of Violation. 
8.02 
An Answer may be submitted by filing out and submitting a form as designated by the 
Department. 
8.03 
The Answer form as designated by the Department will include a request for a hearing. 
8.04 
After an Answer is submitted, the Department may, at its discretion, review or cause a Vendor to 
review the Answer and may, in the Department’s sole discretion, dismiss some or all the alleged 
violations contained in the Notice of Violation being disputed. 
