CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
6 
8.05 
If some or all the alleged violations are dismissed by the Department before a hearing, the 
dismissal must be communicated to the Responsible Party in writing via e-mail or mail to the 
Responsible Party in the same manner as the Notice of Violation. 
8.06 
If the Responsible Party submits a written Answer and the Department does not dismiss all 
alleged violations, an administrative hearing must be held pursuant to Rule 9.00. 
8.07 
Nothing in this rule shall limit the Responsible Party’s ability to admit liability and pay the alleged 
violations before the administrative hearing date. 
9.00 
Administrative Procedure 
The State Administrative Procedure Act shall apply to the administrative procedure under these rules. In 
the case of conflict, the requirements within these rules will apply. 
9.01 
Notice of Hearing 
1. 
After a written Answer is submitted to the Department in the form and manner prescribed 
by the Department, the Department, or its Vendor, shall schedule or cause a Vendor to 
schedule an administrative hearing before a Hearing Officer. 
2. 
The Department shall send or cause a Vendor to send a Notice of Hearing by mail to the 
Responsible Party by first-class mail, personal service, or by any mail delivery service 
offered by an entity other than the US postal service that is equivalent to or superior to 
first-class mail with respect to delivery speed, reliability, and price, to the Responsible 
Party at least thirty (30) days before the scheduled hearing. 
9.02 
Conduct of Hearing 
1. 
A Hearing Officer will preside over the administrative hearing and shall have all powers 
under the State Administrative Procedure Act set forth in section 24-4-105, C.R.S., 
except that for the purposes of these Rules, the decision of the Hearing Officer shall be a 
Final Order and may not be appealed to the Department. 
2. 
The burden of proof shall be by a preponderance of the evidence. 
3. 
Regarding section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S., the Hearing Officer may take notice of the 
scientific principles underlying technology utilized by the Department or the Vendor on its 
behalf, to produce automatic vehicle identification imagery, the foundation of which may 
be presumed, subject to rebuttal by a preponderance of the evidence. 
4. 
The Department shall provide the Responsible Party with all photographs, and other 
evidence that the Department intends to use to prove the alleged violation(s) at least 
fourteen (14) days before the administrative hearing. Such evidence will be sent via e-
mail or mail in the same manner as the Notice of Violation. 
9.03 
Continuances 
1. 
The Responsible Party or their legal representative shall have the right to one (1) 
continuance. 
2. 
A Hearing Officer may, in the Hearing Officer’s sole discretion, continue the 
administrative hearing to a later date. If the administrative hearing is continued, a new 
notice of hearing shall be issued in the same manner as the original notice of hearing for 
the continued hearing date. 
