CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
7 
9.04 
Failure to Appear 
1. 
If a Responsible Party has submitted an Answer and requested a hearing but fails to 
appear at the hearing as originally set or as continued by the Hearing Officer, upon 
satisfaction that notice of the hearing was given by the Department or a vendor on its 
behalf, to the Responsible Party, the Responsible Party will be deemed to have admitted 
liability and have waived the right to a hearing. 
2. 
If the Responsible Party fails to appear, a Final Order may be entered against the 
Responsible Party. 
9.05 
Hearing Officer’s Final Order 
1. 
The Hearing Officer shall review the evidence presented by the Department, or its 
representative, and the Responsible Party, if any, and make a finding as to whether the 
Responsible Party is liable for a Civil Penalty and render a decision in the form of a 
Hearing Officer’s Final Order. 
3. 
In addition to the requirements set forth in Rule 9.06.01, to enter a Final Order in cases 
where the Responsible Party fails to file an Answer requesting a hearing, the Hearing 
Officer must find: 
a. 
That the Notice of Violation was provided to the Responsible Party at the 
Responsible Party’s last known address based on the vehicle records of the 
Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicles, address provided by the 
Responsible Party, or another source approved by the Department; and 
b. 
The Responsible Party was provided with notice of the opportunity to appear at a 
hearing but failed to file an Answer requesting a hearing. 
9.06 
Final Orders and Payment 
1. 
The Final Order must include: 
a. 
The name and address of the Responsible Party involved in the alleged violation; 
b. 
The license plate number and issuing state of the motor vehicle involved in the 
alleged violation; 
c. 
The date, time, and location of the alleged violation; 
d. 
A finding of liable or not liable for each alleged violation detected by AVIS; 
e. 
The amount of the Civil Penalty prescribed for the alleged violation; 
f. 
The deadline for payment of the prescribed Civil Penalty; and 
g. 
Information on how to pay any Civil Penalty. 
2. 
A decision by a Hearing Officer shall be final and will be binding upon the parties. 
3. 
A Responsible Party shall pay the amount set forth in a Final Order within thirty (30) days 
of the effective date. 
