CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
8 
4. 
The Department reserves the right to resolve the amount owed in a Final Order(s), 
including by initiating debt settlement and/or payment plans consistent with Department 
policy. See Section 10.00 of these rules for “Collections.” 
9.07 
Appeal of Hearing Officer’s Final Order 
1. 
The Hearing Officer’s Final Order is subject to judicial review and may be appealed as to 
matters of law and fact to the county court for the county in which the violation occurred 
pursuant to section § 42-4-110.5(2(a)), C.R.S. 
2. 
The Responsible Party may assert in an appeal that a Notice of Violation served by first-
class mail or other mail delivery service was not actually delivered. 
3. 
The appeal shall be de novo. 
4. 
The Hearing Officer’s Final Order may be appealed within thirty-five (35) days of the 
effective date. 
10.00 
Collections 
10.01 
The Department may not initiate or pursue a collection action against a Responsible Party for a 
debt resulting from an unpaid Civil Penalty assessed pursuant to this section unless the 
Responsible Party is personally served the Notice of Violation or the Final Order. 
10.02 
After personally serving the Notice of Violation or the Final Order, the state may contract with an 
outside vendor to initiate or pursue a collection action against a Responsible Party for a debt 
resulting from an unpaid Civil Penalty. 
10.03 
The Department shall have every legal remedy available to enforce unpaid Civil Penalties as 
debts owed to the Department. 
10.04 
The Department or an outside vendor on its behalf may certify the record on appeal by filing a 
certified copy of the Final Order entered by the Hearing Officer with the clerk of the county court 
in the county in which the violation occurred at any time after the Final Order is entered. Nothing 
in this Rule shall require the Department to file such certified copy of the Final Order. 
11.00 
Local Agency AVIS Procedure and Approvals for Use of AVIS on State or US Highways 
11.01 
All AVIS Corridors or use of an AVIS on state or US highways must be approved by the 
appropriate Department Region Traffic Engineer, State Traffic Engineer, and a Colorado State 
Patrol representative. 
1.  
 
The Department will develop and publish a local agency AVIS Corridor 
Procedure and make the procedure available to any local agencies and entities planning 
on implementing AVIS Corridors on any state or US highway. 
2. 
Any local agency or entity planning on implementing an AVIS Corridor or AVIS on any 
state or US highway shall refer to and follow the most recently published version of the 
local agency AVIS Corridor Procedure and apply for approval of any AVIS corridors or 
use of AVIS on state or US highways. 
 
 
