CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-27 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
9 
3. 
Any local agency or entity planning on implementing an AVIS Corridor or AVIS on any 
state or US highway requiring any permanent signage or infrastructure, must apply to the 
appropriate Department region permit office for a special use permit. Local agencies or 
any entity may not implement an AVIS Corridor or install anything within the Department 
right of way until both the AVIS Corridor application and special use permit are approved. 
4. 
Before the state designates an AVIS corridor on a state highway located within the 
boundaries of a county, a city and county, or a municipality, and before the state begins 
operation of an AVIS corridor on a state highway, the state shall coordinate with the 
respective county, city and county, or municipality. 
11.02 
Prioritization Criteria 
1. 
If multiple entities seek authorization to use an AVIS or establish an AVIS Corridor on the 
same portion of a state highway, then the Department will utilize these prioritization 
criteria to determine which entity will receive authorization. 
2. 
If multiple local agencies, local law enforcement agencies, the Department, or entities 
request a new AVIS in the same portion of state highway, the Department will give 
priority to the local agency, local law enforcement agency, or entity that has the primary 
responsibility, through jurisdiction or by agreement, for regulation and enforcement of 
traffic restrictions on the portion of a state highway on which an AVIS is to be used. 
3. 
Local agencies, local law enforcement agencies, or entities that have the primary 
responsibility, through jurisdiction or by agreement, for regulation and enforcement of 
traffic restrictions on the portion of a state highway on which an AVIS is to be used will 
have priority before the Department for establishing AVIS and in school zone 
enforcement. 
4. 
If the Department implements an AVIS Corridor or AVIS along any state or US highway, 
the Department will notify the local agency, law enforcement, or entity with primary 
responsibility for regulation and enforcement of traffic restrictions that the state will be 
using an AVIS within its jurisdiction. The Department will make available the 
administrative and enforcement process that the Department will use to administer and 
resolve a traffic violation detected using an AVIS. The Department will coordinate with the 
local agency, law enforcement, or entity at least thirty (30) days before the Warning 
Period begins. 
5. 
The Department reserves the right to request a reapplication for any local agency, law 
enforcement agency, or entity that ceases operation or does not follow the requirements 
in 42-4-110.5, C.R.S for more than ninety (90) days. 
11.03 
The entity that operates AVIS on a state highway is responsible for the cost of the installation, 
operation, maintenance, and removal of the AVIS and all related signage. 
12.00 
Declaratory Orders 
Any person may petition the Executive Director for a declaratory order pursuant to § 24- 4-105(11) C.R.S. 
 
 
 
