3. Pathways for rouƟng of conduit from the solar-ready zone to the electrical service panel.  
4. Number and locaƟon of EV capable light spaces.  
5. Number and locaƟon of EV capable spaces.  
6. Number and locaƟon of EV ready spaces.  
7. Number and locaƟon of EVSE installed spaces.  
8. LocaƟons of conduit and terminaƟon points serving the aforemenƟoned parking spaces.  
9. LocaƟon for condensate drainage where combusƟon equipment for space heaƟng and water 
heaƟng is installed.  
103.3 ExaminaƟon of Documents. The code oﬃcial shall examine or cause to be examined the 
accompanying documents and shall ascertain whether the construcƟon indicated and described is in 
accordance with the requirements of this code and other perƟnent laws or ordinances. The code oﬃcial is 
authorized to uƟlize a registered design professional, or other approved enƟty not aﬃliated with the 
building design or construcƟon, in conducƟng the review of the plans and speciﬁcaƟons for compliance 
with the code.  
103.3.1 Approval of ConstrucƟon Documents. When the code oﬃcial issues a permit where 
construcƟon documents are required, the construcƟon documents shall be endorsed in wriƟng 
and stamped "Reviewed for Code Compliance". Such approved construcƟon documents shall not 
be changed, modiﬁed, or altered without authorizaƟon from the code oﬃcial. Work shall be done 
in accordance with the approved construcƟon documents.  
One set of "Reviewed for Code Compliance" construcƟon documents shall be retained by the code 
oﬃcial. The other set shall be returned to the applicant, kept at the site of work, and shall be open 
to inspecƟon by the code oﬃcial or a duly authorized representaƟve.  
103.3.2 Previous Approvals. This code shall not require changes in the construcƟon documents, 
construcƟon, or designated occupancy of a structure for which a lawful permit has been 
heretofore issued or otherwise lawfully authorized, and the construcƟon of which has been 
pursued in good faith within 180 days aŌer the eﬀecƟve date of this code and has not been 
abandoned; except that the code oﬃcial is authorized to grant one or more extensions of Ɵme for 
addiƟonal periods not exceeding 180 days each.  
103.3.3 Phased Approval. The code oﬃcial shall have the authority to issue a permit for the 
construcƟon of part of a solar ready, EV ready, or electric ready installaƟon before the construcƟon 
documents for the enƟre system have been submiƩed or approved, provided that adequate 
61
