28 
 
Home Ignition Zone. The structure itself and everything around it up to a minimum of 100 feet 
unless limited by property boundaries. 
 
Listed. Equipment or materials included in a list published by an organization acceptable to the 
“authority having jurisdiction” and concerned with product evaluation, that maintains periodic 
inspection of production of listed equipment or materials and whose listing states either that the 
equipment or material meets appropriate standards or has been tested and found suitable for use 
in a specified manner. 
 
Noncombustible. A material that, in the form in which it is used and under the conditions 
anticipated, will not aid combustion, or add appreciable heat to an ambient fire.  Materials tested 
in accordance with Standard Test Method for Behavior of Materials in a Vertical Tube Furnace 
at 750o C (1382o F), ASTM E 136, and conforming to the criteria contained in Section 7 of the 
referenced standard shall be considered non-combustible. 
 
Occupancy. The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or intended to be used. 
 
Residential Driveway. A vehicular access for private use that serves one lot or parcel 
connecting a house, garage, or other allowed use, to the public or private road. 
 
Residential Shared Driveway. A vehicular access for private use that may serve no more than 
three lots or parcels for the purpose(s) of ingress and egress to buildings, structures, or other 
allowed use. 
 
Roadway. Any surface improved, designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel other than a 
private residential driveway or residential shared driveway as defined in this Standard. 
 
Slope. Upward or downward incline or slant, usually calculated as a percent of slope [rise or fall 
per 100 feet of horizontal distance]. 
 
Standard. This Exhibit B, Douglas County Wildfire Mitigation Standards. 
 
Structure. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of 
work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite manner. 
 
Traveled Way. The portion of a roadway that provides for vehicular travel in all permitted 
directions. 
 
Turnaround. A portion of a roadway or driveway unobstructed by parking, that allows for a 
safe reversal of direction for emergency equipment. 
 
Turnouts. A widening in a roadway or driveway of sufficient length and width to allow vehicles 
to pass one another. 
 
Wildland/Urban Interface. An area where development and wildland fuels meet at a well-
defined boundary. 
