be sized with suﬃcient breaker capacity to meet the electrical demand of the future electric 
equipment or appliance that is sized to serve a comparable capacity to meet the heaƟng load.   
CE302.2.3 Labeling. The juncƟon box or receptacle and the dedicated circuit breaker space serving 
future electric equipment or appliances in the electrical panel shall be labeled for their intended 
use.   
CE302.2.4 Adjacency. The electrical receptacle or juncƟon box must be provided within 3 feet of 
the combusƟon equipment or appliances or within 3 feet of the dedicated physical space for future 
electric equipment or appliances.  
ExcepƟon: For combusƟon equipment dedicated to space or water heaƟng, the electrical 
receptacle or juncƟon box shall be located not more than 6 feet from the combusƟon 
equipment or the dedicated physical space for future electric equipment.   
CE302.2.5 Condensate Drain. Where combusƟon equipment dedicated to space heaƟng and water 
heaƟng is installed, a locaƟon shall be provided for condensate drainage.  
CE302.3 Commercial Buildings 10,000 sq. Ō. or Greater. All commercial buildings that have a gross ﬂoor 
area of 10,000 sq. Ō. or greater shall comply with the following requirements.  
ExcepƟon:  R-occupancies.  
CE302.3.1 CombusƟon Equipment or Appliances. All combusƟon equipment shall be provided 
with the following:  
1. A juncƟon box that is located in the same physical space as the combusƟon equipment 
and is reasonably accessible, and that is connected to the electrical panel by conƟnuous 
conduit and/or raceways.  
2. Dedicated electrical panel space for an appropriately phased branch circuit sized to 
accommodate future electric equipment or appliances to serve a comparable capacity to 
meet the heaƟng load.     
3. Where combusƟon equipment is used for space and water heaƟng, dedicated physical 
space shall be provided for all future electric equipment.    
CE302.3.2 Electrical Panel Space. The electrical panel shall have reserved physical space for a 
minimum two-pole or three-pole circuit breaker for each branch circuit provided for future electric 
equipment or appliances. The physical space in the electrical panel for each circuit breaker shall 
72
