201.3 Terms Deﬁned in Other Codes. Terms that are not deﬁned in this code but are deﬁned in the 
InternaƟonal Building Code, InternaƟonal Fire Code, InternaƟonal Fuel Gas Code, InternaƟonal Mechanical 
Code, InternaƟonal Plumbing Code, InternaƟonal Energy ConservaƟon Code, or InternaƟonal ResidenƟal 
Code shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those codes.  
201.4 Terms not Deﬁned. Terms not deﬁned by this chapter or the codes listed under 201.3 shall have 
ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies.  
SECTION 202 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.  
ADDITIONS. An increase in occupiable gross ﬂoor area of an exisƟng building or structure by more than 50 
percent, or any increase in the number of stories or the height of a building or structure. 
APPROVED. Acceptable to the code oﬃcial.  
APPROVED AGENCY. An established and recognized agency that is regularly engaged in conducƟng tests 
or furnishing inspecƟon services, or furnishing product cerƟﬁcaƟon, where such agency has been 
approved by the code oﬃcial.  
CODE OFFICIAL. The oﬃcer or other designated authority charged with the administraƟon and 
enforcement of this code, or a duly authorized representaƟve.  
COMBUSTION EQUIPMENT. For this code, any equipment or appliance used for spaceheaƟng, service 
water heaƟng, cooking, clothes drying or lighƟng that uses fuel gas or fuel oil.  
COMMERCIAL BUILDING. For this code, all commercial buildings and R-Occupancies that are covered by 
the InternaƟonal Building Code.  
CORE AND SHELL. The ﬁrst phase of a commercial project that has the outer building envelope constructed 
and may contain interior lighƟng and heaƟng and has not received a permanent CerƟﬁcate of Occupancy.  
DIRECT CURRENT FAST CHARGER (DCFC) EVSE. Equipment capable of fast charging on a 100A or higher 
480VAC three-phase branch circuit. AC power is converted into a controlled DC voltage and current within 
the EVSE that will then directly charge the electric vehicle.  
ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV). An automoƟve-type vehicle for on-road use, including but not limited to, 
passenger automobiles, buses, trucks, vans, neighborhood electric vehicles, and electric motorcycles, 
primarily powered by an electric motor that draws current from a building electrical service, EVSE, a 
rechargeable storage baƩery, a fuel cell, a photovoltaic array, or another source of electric current. Oﬀ-
67
