27 
 
Authority Having Jurisdiction. The “authority having jurisdiction” shall be the Building 
Official and the Douglas County Office of Emergency Management.  When matters of joint 
interest are involved, the Building Official or the Douglas County Office of Emergency 
Management may request referral comments from other organizations, offices, or individuals. 
 
Brush. Shrubs and scrub vegetation or other vegetative growth heavier than grass but not full 
tree size. 
 
Building. Any structure used or intended for supporting any use or occupancy. 
 
Classified Roof. A roof constructed with a roof covering that is listed as meeting the 
requirements for Class A, B, or C roof covering materials (see NFPA 256, Standard Methods of 
Fire Tests of Roof Coverings). 
 
Combustible. Any material that, in the form in which it is used and under the condition 
anticipated, will ignite and burn.  
 
Defensible Space. An area either natural or man-made, where material capable of allowing a fire 
to spread unchecked has been treated, cleared, or modified to slow the rate and intensity of an 
advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire suppression operations to occur. 
 
Development. Any human made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but 
not limited to buildings, structures, grading, excavation or any alteration to land, buildings or 
structures which falls under the purview of Douglas County’s adopted regulations. 
 
Dwelling Unit. Any building or structure or portion thereof that contains living facilities with 
provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation for not more than one family. 
 
Fire Hydrant. A valved connection on a piped water supply system having one or more outlets 
and that is used to supply hose and fire department pumpers with water. 
 
Fuel Break. An area, usually a long strip strategically located, wherein vegetative fuels are 
reduced in volume and maintained to cause a reduction of fire intensity if ignited by a wildland 
fire. 
 
Fuel Loading. The volume of fuel in a given area, generally expressed in tons per acre.   
 
Fuel Modification. The removal of fuels, increased spacing of individual plants, or reduction of 
fuel loading. 
 
Fuels. All combustible materials within the wildland-urban Interface or wildland-urban intermix, 
including, but not limited to, vegetation and structures. 
 
Ground Fuels. Any native or landscape vegetation not considered a tree and generally in contact 
with the ground, including, but not limited to, duff layer and loose surface litter.   
 
