 
specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized 
to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered 
design professional. 
104.2.2.7 Peer review. The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer 
review report in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or 
method of construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code 
official. 
104.2.3 Modifications. Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the 
provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for 
individual cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special 
individual reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, that the modification is in 
conformance with the intent and purpose of this code, and that such modification does not 
lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of the written request and action 
granting modifications shall be recorded and entered into the files of the Douglas County 
Building Division. 
104.3 Applications and permits. The code official is authorized to receive applications, review 
construction documents and issue permits for construction regulated by this code, issue permits 
for operations regulated by this code, inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued 
and enforce compliance with the provisions of this code. Any permit required for compliance with 
this code will be reviewed and processed by the Douglas County Building Division through 
existing procedures. 
104.4 Access to Property. For the purpose of inspecting and enforcing the provisions of this code 
and the terms and conditions of any permit issued under this code, the code official is authorized 
to enter upon private property at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice for the purpose of 
determining compliance with this code and to evaluate conditions relative to the permit application. 
104.4.1 Authorization. The owner or occupant of the property having a permit under this 
code shall allow the code official access to the property to perform the required inspections. 
If access is denied, the code official shall apply to the Court with jurisdiction to seek 
authority to access the property. 
104.5 Identification. The code official shall carry proper identification when inspecting 
structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code. 
104.6 Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure 
compliance with this code. 
104.7 Official records. The code official shall keep official records as required by Sections  
104.7.1 104.7.1 through 104.7.5. Such official records shall be retained for not less than 5 years 
or for as long as the structure or activity to which such records relate remains in existence, unless 
otherwise provided by other regulations. 
104.7.1 Approvals. A record of approvals shall be maintained by the code official and 
shall be available for public inspection during business hours in accordance with applicable 
laws. 
7
