44 
 
discharge pipes that require freeze protection shall have at least one Dry Barrel Hydrant.  
Cisterns designed without positive pressure shall have at least one Dry Hydrant.  
 
2-2.8 Tank to Outlet Line Valve. 
All water storage tanks designed with positive pressure shall have a valve between the tanks and 
the outlet pipe.  This valve shall be capable of being manually operated from ground level. 
 
2-2.9 Tank Installation. 
Tanks shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations.  The tank shall be 
installed in a manner, which will prevent freezing and surface erosion. 
 
2-2.10 Pipe Installation. 
Piping shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations.  Piping shall be 
installed in a manner which will prevent freezing and surface erosion. 
 
2-2.11 Water Supply Easement. 
An easement shall be recorded to allow the Fire District to repair, use, and maintain the water 
storage facility. 
 
2-2.12 Water Use Agreement. 
An agreement shall be signed and recorded, encumbering the property, granting the Fire 
District the perpetual right to utilize the water for the fire protection needs of the property to  
be served. 
 
2-2.13 Well.  
A well, installed in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado Division of Water 
Resources shall be connected to a cistern to maintain the fill level.  The well may be a low 
volume (15 GPM) and shall be connected to the tank in an appropriate manner. 
 
2-3* 
Natural Bodies of Water. 
 
2-3.1 Outlet Piping.  
All discharge piping shall be a minimum of six (6) inch diameter PVC Schedule Forty (40).  
Drain, waste and vent (DWV) pipe and fittings are not acceptable. 
 
2-3.2 Fittings. 
All fittings shall be of the type and schedule to be compatible with the piping being used. 
 
2-3.3 Suction Supply Outlet.   
All natural bodies of water utilized for fire protection water supplies shall have a minimum of 
one outlet that meets the size and design requirements of the local fire district.  Natural bodies of 
water designed with positive pressure and systems with discharge pipes which required freeze 
protection shall have a minimum of one Dry Barrel Hydrant.  Natural bodies of water with 
suction outlets designed without positive pressure shall have at least one Dry Hydrant. 
 
 
