17 
 
R401.2 Requirements  
 
 
 
Addition to the end of the subsection 
Based on soils reports for lots within the Dipping Bedrock Overlay District, as identified 
by the Colorado Geological Survey, the Building Official may require additional testing to 
determine the proper foundation design.  Such additional testing may include, but are not 
limited to, testing for initial water content, initial dry density, grain size distribution, 
Atterberg Limits (liquid limit and plasticity index), percent swell and test load surcharge, 
swell pressure, penetration resistance (blow counts), and unconfined compressive strength. 
 
R401.3 Drainage 
 
 
 
 
Delete in its entirety and substitute 
Single-family detached dwelling units and accessory structures thereto, shall comply with 
the Douglas County Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control (DESC) manual. 
 
R402.1 Wood foundations  
 
 
Delete in its entirety 
 
R403.3 Frost-protected shallow foundations  
Delete in its entirety 
 
R905.7 Wood shingles.  
 
 
 
Delete in its entirety 
 
R905.8 Wood Shakes.   
 
 
 
Delete in its entirety 
 
R908.7 Drip edge flashing for asphalt shingle roof 
 
 
Add New Subsection 
Drip edge flashing shall be provided at eaves and rake edges of shingle roofs. Adjacent 
segments of drip edge shall be overlapped a minimum of 2 inches. Drip edges for eaves 
shall extend a minimum of 1.5 inches below the roof sheathing and extend up the roof deck 
a minimum of 4 inches. Drip edges for gables shall extend a minimum of .25 inches below 
the roof sheathing and extend up the roof deck a minimum of 2 inches. Drip edges shall be 
mechanically fastened to the roof deck at a maximum of 12 inches on center with fasteners 
as specified in Section R905.2.5. Underlayment shall be installed over the drip edge along 
eaves and under the drip edge on rakes/gables. Unless specified differently by the shingle 
manufacturer, shingles are permitted to be flush with the drip edge. 
 
R908.1 General 
 
 
 
 
Addition to the end of the subsection 
 
Roof drainage shall comply with the requirements of Section R801.3. 
 
R908.4 Roof recover  
 
 
 
Addition to exception (2) 
 
Exception 2. Where the existing roof covering is asphalt shingle, slate, clay, cement, or 
asbestos-cement tile. 
 
Chapter 11 Energy efficiency  
 
Delete Chapter in its entirety and substitute 
IRC Sections N1101 through N1113 (R505) in Chapter 11 are deleted in their entirety and 
replaced with a new section N1101 to read as follows:  
 
 
 
 
