50 
 
301.1.5 Buried tanks shall be placed upon and completely surrounded with pea gravel 
or other manufacturer’s approved material and shall not be less than 12 inches in 
thickness at any point. 
 
301.1.6 All tanks shall be placed in a fashion to permit periodic maintenance, 
inspection, and repair. This shall include, but not be limited to: 
 
1) Minimum 22 inches manway access into the cistern. 
 
2) Vent piping to the atmosphere must be brass-screened mesh #24 and 
terminate not less than 36 inches above grade. 
 
3) All connections of wet piping to the cistern shall be made with approved 
flexible couplings permitting independent movement of the tank due to 
seismic activity or shrink/swell movement of the soils. 
 
301.1.7 Cisterns shall be located at least 25 feet from buildings, 50 feet away from sewer 
lines or septic tanks, and at least 100 feet from sewage disposal field. 
 
301.1.8 No structure or traffic path may be constructed over a buried tank system unless 
required and must be approved by the tank manufacturer. 
 
301.2 All installations shall conform to applicable codes and regulations adopted by the 
jurisdiction and shall be reviewed for compliance and approved by the Building Official 
prior to commencement of work. 
 
301.3 Water storage cisterns and associated piping shall not be used for bonding of the 
electrical system. An alternative method of bonding, compatible with the most current 
edition of the National Electrical Code shall be used. 
 
301.4 All such systems and associated piping shall be cleaned and sanitized prior to being 
placed into service. 
 
301.5 All storage vessels shall be new and have been used for no other purpose. 
 
301.6 All systems shall be capable of being filled from an outside source. 
 
301.7 All systems shall be tested for leaks by filling the system with water. No system 
shall be tested using air pressure (hydrostatic). The test shall incorporate the use of either 
the vent pipe or fill pipe as a water column with no increase or decrease of more than one 
inch in the water column over a 24-hour period. 
 
302.1 
Interior Water Storage. 
 
302.1.1 Interior spaces where water storage tanks are located shall be a conditioned 
space to prevent freezing. Tanks and piping shall be accessible for removal, replacement, 
