51 
 
inspection, and repair. Interior spaces where tanks are located shall be provided with a 
floor drain. Pumps, pressure vessels, controls, and associated equipment shall be listed 
by an approved testing agency and approved by the Building Official. 
302.1.2 Tanks shall be securely mounted into position. Vertical, upright positioned 
tanks exceeding 5 feet in height shall be provided with at least two wall mounted 
supports, one at the top and one at the bottom of the tank. 
 
303.1 
Exterior Buried Cisterns. 
 
303.1.1 Exterior buried vessels shall be positioned at least one foot below frost line. The 
average frost line in Douglas County has been established at 36 inches. A minimum 22” 
diameter manway and extension with gasketed, bolted cover shall extend to 6 inches 
above grade for service and maintenance.  
 
303.1.2 Penetrations of the cistern walls, connections, or joints of any kind in any buried 
cistern for piping and manways shall incorporate the use of flanged, bolted connections. 
 
Explanatory Notes. 
 
Tanks and cisterns are an acceptable means of providing water to a residence where the water 
well may be a low producing well or in cases where wells have become non-producing. This 
should not be considered an alternative to being served by a water district or other reliable source 
of water. 
 
Locating storage tanks within a conditioned space should be strongly considered to eliminate the 
need for frost protection. The system can be installed in a multiple tank configuration, which 
allows the owner or occupant the opportunity to clean and provide maintenance on one tank at a 
time without taking the entire potable water system out of service. Inside translucent 
polyethylene tank systems can be more easily monitored for visual volume and quality of the 
water that is being used. Any type of system will eventually accumulate silt particles in the 
bottom of the tank over a period of time. Exterior buried systems will be much more difficult to 
clean and maintain and likely will have a higher silt accumulation over a period of time when 
compared to inside installations. 
 
Water quality should be checked at regular intervals. Water should be tested for bacteria and 
other harmful waterborne agents. Bacteria or minerals can usually be removed or destroyed with 
proper treatment technology should such a situation be identified after testing. 
 
Individuals may find that the minimum amount of water storage required by regulation is 
insufficient and may want to install a larger capacity storage tank. Consideration should also be 
taken into account that you may see a reduction in the quality of water that has been stored for 
too long a period of time. 
 
Another issue that should be considered is pump protection for low producing wells. Well pumps 
can be wired into protective switches that shut off the pump when the pump is running free (i.e., 
not pumping water because there is no water to pump). Such a condition can shorten the life of a 
