 
accordance with Section 404.3. 
404.7 Exterior Glazing. Exterior windows, window walls and glazed doors, windows within 
exterior doors, and skylights shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass block or 
have a fire protection rating of not less than 20 minutes. 
404.8 Exterior Doors. Exterior doors shall be approved noncombustible construction, solid core 
wood not less than 1 ¾-inches thick, or have a fire protection rating of not less than 20 minutes. 
Windows within doors and glazed doors shall be in accordance with Section 404.7. 
Exception: Vehicle access doors. 
404.9 Vehicle Access Door Perimeter Gap. Exterior vehicle access doors shall resist the 
intrusion of embers from entering by preventing gaps between doors and door openings, at the 
head, sill, and jamb of doors from exceeding ⅛ inch as approved by the AHJ. 
Gaps between doors and door openings shall be controlled by one of the following methods: 
1. Weather-stripping products made of materials that: (a) have been tested for tensile strength 
in accordance with ASTM D638 (Standard Test Method for Tensile Properties of Plastics) 
after exposure to ASTM G155 (Standard Practice for Operating Xenon Arc Light 
Apparatus for Exposure of Non-Metallic Materials) for a period of 2,000 hours, when the 
maximum allowable difference in tensile strength values between exposed and non-exposed 
samples does not exceed 10 percent; and (b) exhibit a V-2 or better flammability rating when tested 
to UL 94 (Standards for Tests for Flammability of Plastic Materials for Parts in Devices and 
Appliances). 
2. Door overlaps onto jambs and headers. 
3. Garage door jambs and headers covered with metal flashing. 
404.10 Detached Accessory Structures. Detached accessory structures located less than 50 feet 
from a building containing habitable or occupiable space shall have exterior walls constructed in 
accordance with Section 404.3 through 404.3.2. 
404.10.1 Underfloor areas. Where the detached structure is located and constructed so 
that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a descending slope surface greater 
than 10 percent, the area below the structure shall have underfloor areas enclosed to within 
6 inches of the ground, with exterior wall construction in accordance with Section 404.3 or 
underfloor protection in accordance with Section 404.4 or with ⅛-inch metal corrosion-
resistant screen with a hardened zone within 5 feet. 
Exception: The enclosure shall not be required where the underside of exposed floors and 
exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required for 
exterior 
1-hour 
fire-resistance-rated 
construction, 
heavy 
timber 
construction, 
noncombustible materials on the exterior side, or fire-retardant-treated wood on the 
exterior side. The fire-retardant-treated wood shall be labeled for exterior use and meet 
the requirements of Section 2303.2 of the 2024 International Building Code. 
20
