 
wildland-urban interface areas. 
101.4 Retroactivity. The provisions of the code shall apply to conditions arising after the 
adoption thereof, conditions not legally in existence at the adoption of this code and conditions 
that, in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property. 
Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are 
retroactive. 
101.5 Additions or alterations. Additions or alterations shall be permitted to be made to any 
building or structure without requiring the existing building or structure to comply with all of the 
requirements of this code, provided that, when the work increases the footprint of the existing 
structure by 500 square feet or greater, the addition or alteration conforms to that required for a 
new building or structure. 
Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are 
retroactive. 
Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing building or structure that will cause the 
existing building or structure to be in violation of any of the provisions of this code nor shall such 
additions or alterations cause the existing building or structure to become unsafe. An unsafe 
condition shall be deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration will cause the existing 
building or structure to become structurally unsafe or overloaded; will not provide adequate access 
in compliance with the provisions of this code or will obstruct existing exits or access; will create 
a fire hazard; will reduce required fire resistance or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to 
human life. 
101.6 Roof coverings. The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior to adoption 
of this code that are replaced or have 25 percent or more of the surface area of the roof replaced, 
or where work to reconstruct, alter, or repair the roof covering effectively replaces such material, 
shall require the entirety of the roof covering to be replaced with a roof covering required for new 
construction specified in Sections 403.2 through 403.2.2. 
Exception: Existing roof coverings that are compliant with Section 403.2. 
101.7 Exterior walls. The exterior walls of building or structures in existence prior to adoption of 
this code where 25 percent or more of the total exterior wall surface area is replaced, or where 
work to reconstruct, alter or repair the exterior walls effectively replaces the exterior wall material, 
shall require the entirety of the exterior wall surface area, including attachments, to be replaced 
with materials required for new construction specified in Section 404.3 through 404.3.2 and the 
immediate zone within 5 feet of the structure shall be made to comply with Section 503.1. 
Exception: Existing exterior walls that are compliant with Section 404.3. 
101.8 Maintenance. Buildings, structures, landscape materials, vegetation, defensible space or 
other devices or safeguards required by this code shall be maintained in conformance to the code 
edition under which installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be responsible for 
the maintenance of buildings, structures, landscape materials and vegetation. 
 
 
2
