45 
 
2-3.4 Pipe Installation. 
Piping shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations.   Piping shall be 
installed in a manner, which will prevent freezing and surface erosion. 
 
2-3.5 Water Supply Easement.  
An easement shall be recorded to allow the Fire District to repair, use, and maintain the water 
supply facility. 
 
2-3.6 Water Use Agreement. 
An agreement shall be signed and recorded, encumbering the property, granting the Fire District 
the perpetual right to utilize the water for the fire protection needs of the property to be served. 
 
2-4* 
Water Supply Access. 
The water supply site shall be accessible from a public or private roadway.   
A fire apparatus pullout shall be connected to the roadway and constructed to permit fire 
apparatus to position for water removal and to permit tenders to be filled and turned around. 
The pullout shall be designed as a forty-five (45) foot radius or twenty (20) foot by sixty (60) 
foot rectangular area with the water supply hydrant outlet located at the apex of the radius or the 
centerline of a rectangle.  The outlet shall be located not more than eight (8) feet or less than six 
(6) feet from the edge of the all-weather surface.  Two steel posts (bollards) shall be placed at the 
edge of the all-weather surface to protect the hydrant. 
 
2-5*  Testing and Maintenance. 
 
2-5.1 Testing. 
Acceptance testing shall be performed jointly by the Building Official and the Fire District 
whenever possible, prior to the construction of any structures within the development served by 
the water storage facility.  Acceptance testing shall include vacuum test of draft piping, pressure 
testing at fifty (50) pounds per square inch for pipes in those systems designed with head 
pressure, and a flow test. 
 
After acceptance, each water storage location shall be checked periodically, and reports kept by 
the Fire District.  Fire Districts should establish a program for testing and maintenance of water 
supply facilities within their jurisdiction. 
 
2-5.2 Maintenance. 
The Fire District shall be responsible to ensure the operational readiness of the water supply 
facility.  The Fire District may choose to delegate the cost and responsibility of the water system 
maintenance to an organization other than the Fire District.  In such case the Fire District shall 
stipulate to a maintenance agreement, which must be reviewed and approved by Douglas 
County, that ensures the operational readiness and continued maintenance of each water supply 
facility. 
 
 
 
