 
104.7.2 Inspections. The code official shall keep a record of each inspection made, 
including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each. 
104.7.3 Code alternatives and modifications. Application for alternative materials, 
design and methods of construction and equipment in accordance with Section 104.2.2; 
modifications in accordance with Section 104.2.3; and documentation of the final decision 
of the code official for either shall be in writing and shall be retained in the official records. 
104.7.4 Tests. The code official shall keep a record of tests conducted to comply with 
Sections 104.2.1.4 and 104.2.2.5. 
104.7.5 Fees. The code official shall keep a record of fees collected and refunded in 
accordance with Section 106. 
104.8 Liability. The code official, member of the board of appeals or employee charged with the 
enforcement of this code, while acting for Douglas County, in good faith and without malice in 
the discharge of the duties required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not 
thereby be rendered personally liable, either civilly or criminally, and is hereby relieved from all 
personal liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by reason 
of any act or omission in the discharge of official duties. 
104.8.1 Legal defense. Any suit or criminal complaint instituted against any officer or 
employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge 
of duties and under the provisions of this code or other laws or ordinances implemented 
through the enforcement of this code shall be defended by legal representatives of Douglas 
County until final termination of the proceedings. The code official or any subordinate shall 
not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the 
provisions of this code. 
104.9 Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices approved by the 
code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval. 
104.9.1 Materials and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall not be 
reused unless such elements are in good working order and approved. 
104.10 Other agencies. When requested to do so by the code official, other officials of Douglas 
County shall assist and cooperate with the code official in the discharge of the duties required by 
this code. 
 
SECTION 105—TEMPORARY USES, EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS 
105.1 General. The code official is authorized to issue a permit for temporary uses, equipment 
and systems. Such permits shall be limited as to time of service, but shall not be permitted for more 
than 180 days. The code official is authorized to grant extensions for demonstrated cause. 
105.2 Conformance. Temporary uses, equipment and systems shall conform to the requirements 
of this code as necessary to ensure health, safety and general welfare. 
105.3 Temporary service utilities. The code official is authorized to give permission to 
temporarily supply service utilities. 
105.4 Termination of approval. The code official is authorized to terminate such permit for 
8
