104.3 ReinspecƟon. A building shall be reinspected where determined necessary by the code 
oﬃcial.  
104.4 Approved InspecƟon Agencies. The code oﬃcial is authorized to accept reports of third-
party inspecƟon agencies not aﬃliated with the building design or construcƟon, provided that 
such agencies are approved as to qualiﬁcaƟons and reliability relevant to the building components 
and systems that they are inspecƟng.  
104.5 InspecƟon Requests. It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly 
authorized agent to noƟfy the code oﬃcial when work is ready for inspecƟon. It shall be the duty 
of the permit holder to provide access to and means for inspecƟons of such work that are required 
by this code.  
104.6 ReinspecƟon and TesƟng. Where any work or installaƟon does not pass an iniƟal test or 
inspecƟon, the necessary correcƟons shall be made to achieve compliance with this code. The 
work or installaƟon shall then be resubmiƩed to the code oﬃcial for inspecƟon and tesƟng.  
SECTION 105 NOTICE OF APPROVAL.  
105.1 Approval. AŌer the prescribed inspecƟons indicate that the work complies in all respects 
with this code, a noƟce of approval shall be issued by the code oﬃcial.  
105.2 RevocaƟon. The code oﬃcial is authorized to suspend or revoke, in wriƟng, a noƟce of 
approval issued under the provisions of this code wherever the cerƟﬁcate is issued in error, or on 
the basis of incorrect informaƟon supplied, or where it is determined that the building or 
structure, premise, or porƟon thereof is in violaƟon of any ordinance or regulaƟon or any of the 
provisions of this code.  
SECTION 106 VALIDITY.  
106.1 General. If a porƟon of this code is held to be illegal or void, such a decision shall not aﬀect the 
validity of the remainder of this code.  
SECTION 107 REFERENCED STANDARDS.  
107.1 General. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be listed in SecƟon 107.2, 
and such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the requirements of this code to the 
prescribed extent of each such reference.  
64
