CS401.1 General. These provisions shall be applicable for new buildings, and major renovaƟons and 
addiƟons.  
SECTION CS402 SOLAR-READY ZONE  
CS402.1 General. A solar-ready zone shall be located on the roof of all new commercial buildings that are 
oriented between 110 and 270 degrees of true north or have low-sloped roofs. Solar-ready zones shall 
comply with SecƟons CS402.2 through CS402.7.  
ExcepƟons:  
1. A building with a permanently-installed, on-site renewable energy system that meets the 
following criteria.  
a. The system produces the energy output equivalent to covering 40 percent of the 
net roof area with solar photovoltaic calculated as the horizontally projected gross 
roof area less the area covered by skylights, occupied roof decks, vegetaƟve roof 
areas, and mandatory access or set back areas as required by the  
InternaƟonal Fire Code.  
b. The system is located on the roof or overhang of the building or on the roof or 
overhang of another structure located within 250 feet of the building, on the 
building premises, on covered parking, or another approved locaƟon installed 
with the building project and under the same property ownership.  
2. A building with a solar-ready zone that is shaded for more than 70 percent of daylight 
hours annually.  
3. A building where a licensed design professional cerƟﬁes that the incident solar radiaƟon 
available to the building is not suitable for a solar-ready zone.  
4. A building where a licensed design professional cerƟﬁes that the solarready zone area 
required by SecƟon CS402.3 cannot be met because of extensive rooŌop equipment, 
skylights, vegetaƟve roof areas, or other obstrucƟons.  
CS402.2  
ConstrucƟon  
Document  
Requirements  
for  
a  
Solar-Ready  
Zone.  
ConstrucƟon documents shall indicate the solar-ready zone.  
CS402.3 Solar-Ready Zone Area. The total solar-ready zone area shall not be less than 40 percent of the 
roof area calculated as the horizontally projected gross roof area less the area covered by skylights, 
occupied roof decks, vegetaƟve roof areas, and mandatory access or set back areas as required by the 
75
