 
SECTION 102—APPLICABILITY 
102.1 General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific 
requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where, in any specific case, different sections 
of this code, or any other adopted code, specify different materials, methods of construction or 
other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. 
102.2 Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of 
local, state or federal law. 
102.3 Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers, or to provisions not 
specifically identified by number, shall be construed to refer to such chapter, section or provision 
of this code. 
102.4 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in this code are 
listed throughout this code. Such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the 
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further regulated 
in Sections 102.4.1 and 102.4.2. 
102.4.1 Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the 
referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this code shall govern. 
102.4.2 Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of the 
reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope 
of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the 
provisions in the referenced standard. 
102.5 Subjects not regulated by this code. Where applicable standards or requirements are not 
set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordinances or policies 
adopted by Douglas County, compliance with applicable standards of other nationally recognized 
safety standards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie evidence of compliance with the 
intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the authority of the code official to 
determine compliance with codes or standards for those activities or installations within Douglas 
County. 
102.6 Matters not provided for. Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an 
existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occupants thereof, 
which are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by the code official consistent with 
the necessity to establish the minimum requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and general 
welfare. 
102.7 Partial invalidity. In the event that any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or 
void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or provisions. 
102.8 Existing conditions. The legal occupancy or use of any structure or condition existing on 
the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without change, except as is 
specifically covered in this code, the Internation Building Code, International Residential Code, 
International Fire Code, or as is deemed necessary by the code official for the general safety and 
welfare of the occupants and the public. 
102.9 Historic structures. A variance is authorized to be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of 
a historic structure or construction of a contributing structure upon a determination that the 
3
