Chapter 2 - Definitions 
SECTION 201 GENERAL 
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words and terms shall, for the 
purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter. 
201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the future; words stated in 
the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; and the singular number includes the plural 
and the plural the singular. 
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code and are defined in 
other International Codes, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes. 
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods authorized by this 
section, such terms shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies. 
SECTION 202 DEFINITIONS 
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure used to shelter or support any material, 
equipment, chattel or occupancy other than a habitable building. 
AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure designed and constructed to house farm 
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products. This structure shall not 
be a place of human habitation or a place of employment where agricultural products are processed, 
treated or packaged, nor shall it be a place used by the public. 
APPROVED. Acceptable to the code official. 
BUILDING. Any structure intended for supporting or sheltering any occupancy. 
CLASS A TESTS. Class A Tests are applicable to roof coverings that are expected to be effective 
against severe fire exposure, afford a high degree of fire protection to the roof deck, do not slip 
from position, and are not expected to present a flying brand hazard. 
CODE OFFICIAL. The code official is the Chief Building Official. 
DEFENSIBLE SPACE. An area either natural or man-made, where material capable of allowing 
a fire to spread unchecked has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate and intensity of 
an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire suppression operations to occur. 
EMBELLISHMENTS. Elements incorporated in design and construction for ornamental or 
decorative purpose that are not integral to the structure or structural support. 
FIRE INTENSITY CLASSIFICATION. The level of fire intensity identified for areas where 
significant fuel hazards and associated dangerous fire behavior may exist, based upon vegetative 
fuels, topography, weather conditions, and flame length value. 
FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION. The use of materials and systems in the 
10
