13 
 
An acoustical engineer, registered with the State of Colorado, shall certify that construction 
practices and/or materials of the structure will achieve an interior noise level below DNL 
45 dBA.  The acoustical professional shall submit documentation of the proposed measures 
to the Building Official before permitting. 
 
Field testing to show compliance with the following Outdoor-Indoor Transmission Class 
(OITC) ratings shall be formed in accordance with the current ASTM standard.  
OITC ratings of wall, floor, roof, window, and door assemblies shall be a value of 32 or 
greater.  
 
40.2 Penetrations 
All membrane or through penetrations in the construction assemblies for piping, electrical 
devices, recessed cabinets, bathtubs, soffits, heating, combustion, ventilation, or exhaust 
ducts shall be sealed, lined, insulated or otherwise treated to maintain the required ratings. 
 
50.0 SITE SANITATION 
 
 
 
Add new section and subsections 
 
50.1 Sanitation facilities required 
Every building site during construction, remodeling, or demolition activities, shall be 
furnished with approved sanitation facilities for workers in accordance with Section 311 of 
the International Plumbing Code and an appropriate enclosure or other means approved by 
Douglas County to contain trash and debris.  
 
50.2 Location 
Sanitary facilities and approved trash enclosures shall be located within 300 feet of the 
building site. Sanitary facilities and trash enclosures shall not be located within the public 
right-of-way. Failure to comply with this section may cause suspension of inspections until 
compliance is achieved. 
 
AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE (IRC) 
Note: Refer to the section “Amendments common to all adopted International 
Codes” for more information. 
 
Appendix BD Home Day Care Occupancy 
Adopt Appendix 
 
Wildfire Mitigation Standards 
 
 
Adopt as an appendix 
Attached hereto, as Exhibit “B” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Water Supply Standard for Rural Firefighting 
Adopt as an appendix 
Attached hereto, as Exhibit “C” 
 
Installation Standard IS-22-98 
 
 
Adopt as an appendix 
Installation standards for potable water storage tanks and cisterns for domestic use 
Attached hereto, as Exhibit “D” 
 
 
R101.1 Title [NAME OF JURISDICTION]  
Replace  
Douglas County Building Division  
Insert  
