33 
 
3-3.4 Building Envelope Siting. Building envelope siting shall comply with Chapter 3 of this 
standard.  If proper building envelope siting cannot be or is not met as required by Chapter 3, the 
Building Official, in his or her sole discretion, may approve alternative mitigation methods to 
include, but not be limited to, private fire protection systems, classified siding, Class “A” 
roofing, or triple pane windows. 
Delete Chapter 4 in its entirety 
Chapter 5 Emergency Water Supplies 
 
Where, in any specific case, the amount of water storage for rural fire fighting conflicts with 
International Fire Code, the Standard for Water Supplies for Rural Firefighting, attached hereto 
as Exhibit “C” shall govern. 
 
5-1 
General. This chapter describes the process by which provisions for emergency water 
supplies shall be evaluated, designed, constructed, and maintained. 
 
5-2 
Notification. The authority having jurisdiction shall be notified in writing before any 
water system is constructed, altered, or removed and before site development or construction of 
any structure commences so that fire protection can be evaluated and ample water supply 
capabilities pertinent to such construction can be established. 
 
5-3 
Evaluation of Water Supply Needs. 
 
5-3.1 Authority. The fire protection agency having jurisdiction shall evaluate all buildings, 
proposed and existing, to obtain information required for computing minimum water supply. 
Information obtained from plans or on-site surveys and determinations made and recorded shall 
reflect the water supply category required. The computation of minimum water supplies for other 
than municipal, domestic, or fixed fire protection systems shall be in accordance with NFPA 
1142 or other approved method. 
 
5-3.2 Design, Construction, and Maintenance. Based upon the water supply evaluation, the 
authority having jurisdiction shall approve the design, construction, and maintenance of water 
supplies and distribution systems to ensure that the fire protection concerns have been addressed 
and adequate water supplies and access thereto have been provided. 
 
5-4 
Minimum Water Supply Requirements. Water shall be available to provide a 
minimum fire flow of two hundred fifty (250) gallons per minute for a two (2) hour duration in 
accordance with Exhibit C of this Resolution. 
 
5-5 
Static Water Supplies. The design and construction of and access to static water 
supplies shall be in accordance with NFPA 1142 or other approved method. 
 
5-6 
Signage of Water Supplies. When required by the authority having jurisdiction, each 
fire hydrant or access to water shall be identified as follows: 
 
