 
Chapter 1 - Scope and Administration 
PART 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
SECTION 101 SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Douglas County Wildfire Resiliency 
Code as adopted by Douglas County, hereinafter referred to as “this code.” 
101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, alteration, movement, 
repair, maintenance and use of any building, structure or premises that contain occupiable and/or 
habitable space, or change in use resulting in an occupiable and/or habitable space, unless 
excepted, within the wildland-urban interface areas of Douglas County that are outside the 
corporate limits of a city or town and outside the boundaries of a fire protection district. Buildings 
or conditions in existence at the time of the adoption of this code are allowed to have their use or 
occupancy continued, if such condition, use or occupancy was legal at the time of the adoption of 
this code, provided that such continued use does not constitute a distinct danger to life or property. 
Buildings or structures moved into or within the wildland-urban interface areas of Douglas 
County, unless excepted, that are outside the corporate limits of a city or town and outside the 
boundaries of a fire protection district shall comply with the provisions of this code for new 
buildings or structures. 
101.2.1 Appendices.  Nonapplicable. None adopted. 
101.2.2 Factory-Built Structures (nonresidential, residential, and tiny homes). 
Structure hardening provisions of this code for factory-built structures as defined by 
sections 24-32-3302(9), (10), (11), and (35), C.R.S., are in accordance with Rules adopted 
by the Division of Housing in 8 CCR 1302-1, Rule 2 Codes and Standards. 
101.2.3 HUD Code Homes. Homes built to the HUD Manufactured Home Construction 
and Safety Standards are exempt from structure hardening requirements on their first 
installation. Homes built to the HUD Manufactured Home Construction and Safety 
Standards which are moved into an applicable Wildfire Resiliency code area are subject to 
the provisions of this code as required by the authority having jurisdiction. 
101.3 Purpose. The purpose of this code is to establish minimum regulations for the safeguarding 
of life and for property protection. Regulations in this code are intended to mitigate the risk to life 
and structures from intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures and fire exposures from adjacent 
structures and to mitigate structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. The extent of this 
regulation is intended to be tiered commensurate with the relative level of hazard present. 
The unrestricted use of property in wildland-urban interface areas is a potential threat to life and 
property from fire and resulting erosion. Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of fires and to 
provide adequate fire protection facilities to control the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface 
areas shall be in accordance with this code. 
This code shall supplement Douglas County’s building and fire codes, if such codes have been 
adopted, to provide for special regulations to mitigate the fire- and life-safety hazards of the 
1
