47 
 
The initial use of the closest water source to develop two hundred fifty (250) GPM may be 
supplemented by more distant sources by auto aid water hauling tenders.  The use of more water 
storage sites may become a necessary requirement to relieve congestion at a single water storage 
site used to fill tenders at a set rate. 
 
Travel Distance.  
The maximum travel distance shall be two (2) miles from the water source (cistern or natural 
body of water) to each parcel.  The travel distance is computed using ISO formulas for time and 
distance based on average speed of thirty-five (35) miles per hour.  Since rural operations often 
involve standard operations, which account for long driveways, the driveways are not included.  
The maximum travel distance of two miles limits the total travel to four miles round trip and 
places the thirty thousand (30,000) gallon cisterns every four miles.  The limit of four travel 
miles, round trip, encourages developers to ensure an effective roadway network with 
connections that maximizes the effectiveness of each water storage site. 
A-2-2 Cistern Design. 
Cisterns shall be built to hold thirty thousand (30,000) gallons and installed with a low volume 
well, less than fifteen (15) gallons per minute to maintain the water level once the cistern is full.  
An all-weather road shall accommodate access to engines and tenders and provide a hydrant (wet 
or dry) with standardized NST connections installed with head pressure whenever possible.  The 
well can be utilized for domestic water supply to a building site, which is encouraged.  The daily 
use of the well helps to ensure it’s in service operation and does not compromise the ability to 
maintain the water level in the cistern.  The developer must grant an easement on the building 
site, which best serves, the area as the cistern location.  An agreement for reimbursement of cost 
to operate the well for large usage can be arranged with the homeowner, while incidental 
“topping off” is paid for by the daily user of the well. 
 
A-2-3 Natural Bodies of Water. 
The use of natural bodies of water requires a field survey which: 
 
 Measures the potential for fire protection water availability every date of the year 
 Measures the useful depth of the water as a function of draftable height to the pump 
intake 
 Studies flow characteristics during each of the annual weather seasons for a stream or 
river source 
 Addresses the ability to install an accessible hydrant 
 
The Dry Hydrant Manual referenced in Appendix B provides detailed checklists for the field 
survey and the draftable limits in feet as function of elevation as designated by the Colorado 
State Forest Service. 
A-2-4 Water Supply Access. 
The access specified in Section 2-4 can be accomplished by utilizing different designs provided 
that the design accommodates an unobstructed area, located outside of the traffic lanes, and 
permits fire engine connection to the outlet and clearance to accommodate tender approach hose 
connection, and turn around.  See examples in Figures 1 through 3. 
