26 
 
Exhibit B 
 
WILDFIRE MITIGATION STANDARDS 
 
General 
 
(a). Purpose. The provisions of this standard are intended to promote public safety and welfare 
by reducing the risk of fire-induced damages to property and the environment. 
 
(b). Scope. This standard applies to all property, buildings and structures located within wildfire 
hazard areas as determined by the Wildfire Overlay District Map, site-specific analysis, and 
wildfire hazard assessment. Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adoption of 
this standard are allowed to have their use or occupancy continued, if such condition, use, or 
occupancy was legal at the time of the adoption of this standard. 
 
 (c). Design and Construction. The design and construction of buildings and structures located 
within the boundaries of a Wildfire Hazard Area shall be in accordance with the standard set 
forth below. 
Chapter 1 Introduction 
 
1-1 
Scope. This standard presents minimum planning criteria for the protection of life and 
property from wildfire.  It includes information on safe procedures and best practices at 
the wildland-urban interface or intermix. 
 
1-2 
Purpose. The purpose of this standard is to provide criteria for fire agencies, land use 
planners, architects, developers, forestry consultants and local government for 
development in areas that may be threatened by wildfire. 
 
1-3 
Definitions. For the purpose of this standard, the following terms have the meanings 
shown below: 
 
Access Routes. Principal vehicular ingress and egress to a structure or through a development, 
crossing more than one parcel, including public and private roads, streets, and lanes, that extend 
to and intersect with a publicly maintained road, street, or lane. 
 
Accessory Building or Structure. Any building or structure used incidentally to another 
building or structure or other allowed use, and which is located on the same lot or parcel. 
 
Aerial Fuels. Standing and supported live and dead combustibles not in direct contact with the 
ground and consisting mainly of foliage, twigs, branches, stems, cones, bark, and vines. 
 
Approved. Acceptable to the “authority having jurisdiction.” 
 
Aspect. Direction towards which the slope faces. 
 
