14 
 
R105.2(5) Work exempt from permit (Building)  
Delete words “and driveways” 
 
R105.2(11-14) Work exempt from permit (Building) 
Add new exceptions 
11. Manufactured metal shipping containers used as tool and storage sheds with a floor 
area not larger than 200 square feet and are: 
11.1. Not used for storage of hazardous materials, or 
11.2. Not modified, connected, or stacked on top of each other.  
 
12. Shade structures such as fabric shade sails or fabric covered awnings; and detached, 
free standing pergolas that do not exceed 200 square feet and are not subject to a 
uniformly distributed snow load; and detached ornamental garden structures and 
greenhouses accessory to a dwelling that do not exceed 200 square feet.  
 
13. Replacement windows and doors where no structural modification of the rough 
opening is required, and the replacement window is of the same operating style as the 
existing window or a style that provides for an equal or greater window opening area 
than the existing window. This exemption shall not apply within areas subject to the 
Douglas County Wildfire Resiliency Code. 
 
14. The replacement or repair of roofing less than one square (100 square feet). 
 
All work exempted by this Section R105.2 must comply with applicable zoning 
requirements and the regulations of other agencies having authority.  
 
Work exempted from permit under Section R105.2 shall comply with the Douglas County 
Wildfire Resiliency Code when applicable. 
 
R105.3 Application for permit (8) and (9)  
 
Add new subsection requirements 
 
8. Proof of ownership of the property shall be submitted with the building permit 
application. When access is not from a public road, proof of legal and physical access 
shall be submitted with the application. If legal access is in question, the Building 
Official may confer with the County Attorney to determine the legality of the proposed 
access. If physical access is in question, referral comments may be sought from the 
Douglas County Department of Public Works and the Fire Protection District serving 
the property. The Building Official shall then determine whether legal access is 
available and whether physical access is safe, reasonable, and adequate. If the Building 
Official determines that the physical access is not safe, reasonable, or adequate, he may 
recommend whatever improvements would be necessary to provide safe and reasonable 
access. 
 
9. A soils test of the building site prepared by a professional engineer registered by the 
State of Colorado shall be submitted with the application for a building permit. A 
professional engineer registered by the State of Colorado shall design the foundation 
in accordance with the soils report.  Concrete foundations shall comply with ACI 318. 
When the building site is located in a hillside area, or in the opinion of the Building 
Official, is located in an area subject to geological hazards or steep slopes, the Building 
