29 
 
Wildland-Urban Intermix. An area where development and wildland fuels meet with no clearly 
defined boundary. 
 
Wildfire. An unplanned and unwanted fire requiring suppression action; an uncontrolled fire, 
usually spreading through vegetative fuels but often threatening structures. 
 
Chapter 2 Wildland-Urban Interface and Wildland-Urban Intermix Analysis 
2-1 
General. The analysis of the wildland-urban interface or wildland-urban intermix will 
help identify and document local problem areas and guide the application of standards and 
establishment of priorities relative to fire danger. 
2-1.1  Scope.  The provisions of this chapter establish general requirements for wildfire hazard 
assessment, inspection, and analysis for development, new and existing buildings, structures, and 
premises located within the wildfire hazard area, as determined by the Wildfire Hazard Overlay 
District Map.    
2-1.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish minimum requirements to reduce 
the likelihood of life and property loss due to wildland fire, reduce exposures from adjacent 
structures and to prevent structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels.  The wildfire hazard 
assessment, inspection and analysis shall assess all applicable wildfire hazards and risks as they 
relate to the natural and built environments. Results of the assessment will establish minimum 
requirements for project development as it relates to land use applications, including 35 acre and 
larger developments and building permits. 
2-2    Analysis. The authority having jurisdiction shall perform a wildland fire hazard 
assessment of all developments, existing or planned, to determine the amount of wildfire 
mitigation necessary.  The analysis developed under the authority of this section shall be the 
basis for the implementation of fire conscious design and construction criteria.  The analysis 
shall be based on a project-specific wildfire hazard assessment that includes considerations of 
location, topography, aspect, and vegetative fuel loading, as well as any existing developments. 
2-3 
Analysis Components. The analysis shall consider the following components: 
 
(a) 
Wildland-urban interface or wildland-urban intermix boundaries 
 
(b) 
Slope & Aspect 
 
(c) 
Climatic Conditions 
 
(d) 
Structure Building Materials 
 
(e) 
Vegetative Fuels 
 
(f) 
Neighborhood Scale Hazard Potential 
 
 
