InternaƟonal Fire Code. The solar-ready zone shall be a single area or smaller, separated sub-zone areas. 
Each sub-zone area shall be not less than 5 feet in width in the narrowest dimension.   
The solar-ready zone shall be located on the roof or overhang of the building or on the roof or overhang 
of another structure located within 250 feet of the building, on the building premises, on covered parking, 
or another approved locaƟon installed with the building project and under the same property ownership 
.  
CS402.4 ObstrucƟons. Solar-ready zones shall be free from obstrucƟons, including pipes, vents, ducts, 
HVAC equipment, skylights, and roof-mounted equipment.  
CS402.5 Roof Loads and DocumentaƟon. The structural design loads for roof dead load and roof live load 
shall be indicated on the construcƟon documents.  
CS402.6 InterconnecƟon Pathway. ConstrucƟon documents shall indicate at least one potenƟal pathway 
for rouƟng of conduit and/or raceway from the solar-ready zone to an electrical service panel and shall be 
labeled as “PotenƟal Pathway” on the construcƟon documents.  
CS402.7 Electrical Service Reserved Space. The main electrical service panel shall have a minimum bus 
bar raƟng of not less than 200 amps. The main electrical service panel shall have a reserved space to allow 
installaƟon of a dual-pole circuit breaker for future solar electric. This space shall be labeled “For Future 
Solar Electric.” The reserved space shall be posiƟoned at the end of the panel that is opposite from the 
panel supply conductor connecƟon.   
PART 3 RESIDENTIAL SOLAR PANEL CAPACITY   
SECTION RS410 SCOPE  
RS410.1 General. These provisions shall be applicable for all new buildings, and major renovaƟons and 
addiƟons.  
RS410.2 Electric Service Reserved Space. The main electrical service panel shall have suﬃcient reserved 
space to allow installaƟon of a dual pole circuit breaker for future solar electric installaƟon and shall be 
labeled “For Future Solar Electric.” The reserved space shall be posiƟoned at the opposite (load) end from 
the input feeder locaƟon or main circuit locaƟon.  
76
