30 
 
2-4    Assessing Fuel Hazards.  For purposes of this sub-paragraph, “fuel” means any 
combustible material, including petroleum-based products, cultivated landscape plants, grasses, 
weeds, and wildland vegetation.  The amount of fuel modification necessary shall consider the 
flammability of the structure as affected by building material, building standards, location, and 
types of vegetation. Fuels shall be maintained and spaced in a condition so that a wildfire 
burning under average weather conditions would be unlikely to ignite the structure.  Fuels 
modification will be supported by available science, risk models and best practices, and shall be 
at the discretion of the Authority Having Jurisdiction. 
2-4.1 Assessment Relating to the Land-Use Process.  Development determined to be subject 
to the provisions of the Wildfire Hazard Overlay District and identified by wildfire mitigation 
staff as a significant wildfire hazard, must provide a Wildfire Mitigation or Forest Management 
Plan to be submitted by a professional forester, reviewed, and approved by Douglas County staff, 
and executed prior to the issuance of building permits within the development. 
2-4.2 Assessment Relating to the Building Permitting Process.  Each construction project 
permitted through the Building Division is subject to review under the adopted regulations.  Any 
property undergoing development within the wildfire hazard area, as identified by the boundaries 
of the Wildfire Hazard Overlay District Map, whether new construction or modification to 
existing development, will require a wildfire hazard assessment from the Douglas County Office 
of Emergency Management.  The assessment will examine the area within the first 100 feet from 
the edge of the built environment or to the property line, whichever comes first.  The intensity of 
fuels management may vary within the 100-foot perimeter of the structure, with more intense 
fuel reductions being utilized between 5 and 30 feet around the structure, and an ember-resistant 
zone being required within 5 feet of the structure. 
Chapter 3 
Fuel Modification Planning 
 
3-1 
General. This chapter will provide guidance in the mitigation measures associated with 
fuel hazards and special hazard conditions.  Fuel modifications shall be the primary mitigation 
measure. New subdivisions or developments shall complete the hazardous fuel reduction and 
mitigation work outlined in the Douglas County approved forest management or wildfire 
mitigation plan submitted by the applicant, if required, prior to the issuance of building permits 
for structures within the development. The Douglas County Office of Emergency Management 
shall determine whether a wildfire mitigation or forest management plan is required based on 
current forest conditions 
 
3-2 
Evaluation Factors. As prescribed in Chapter 2 of this standard, a comprehensive 
assessment of the fuel hazard shall be made.  Factors that shall be considered in the assessment 
include: 
 
(a) 
Fuel-type identification 
 
(b) 
Fuel loading (volume) 
 
