46 
 
Section 3 Rural Water Supply Standard for Buildings Other Than One and Two-Family 
Dwellings 
 
3-1 General. 
The required fire flow for buildings other than one and two-family dwellings shall be in 
accordance with the International Fire Code as amended. 
 
3-2 Application. 
Fire flow requirements may be modified when agreed upon by the fire code official and the 
building official. The Douglas County Standard for Water Supplies for Rural Fire Fighting, 
NFPA 1141, NFPA 1142, ISO Fire Suppression Rating Schedule or other approved method may 
be utilized to determine fire flow requirements. 
APPENDIX “A” 
A-2-1 General. 
The application of this standard will, over a period of time, ensure adequate fire suppression 
water supplies for a large portion of Douglas County.  The standard uses a systems approach to 
fire protection water supply requirements by encouraging a uniform application of these 
requirements.  The installation of standard water supplies, in developed areas of the county, 
enhances the operation of mutual and auto aide companies in routine and conflagration fires.  
The use of a uniform standard by all fire districts can diminish the review problems encountered 
by fire personnel, planners, and developers. 
 
Fire Flow.   
The minimum fire flow requirement is two hundred fifty (250) GPM based on the Fire Districts 
ability to transport water using their equipment.  The ability to increase the fire flow from two 
hundred fifty (250) GPM to five hundred (500) GPM or more can be accomplished by utilizing 
auto aid or additions of tenders by the Fire District. 
 
The two hundred fifty (250) GPM is recognized by ISO as the minimum fire flow necessary for 
credit as a protected property (Class 9) and a strong argument can be made for all Douglas 
County Fire Districts ability to apply the available fire flow to the fire.  An analysis of response 
times for arriving engines and tankers can demonstrate the initial ability to utilize a fire flow of 
two hundred fifty (250) GPM.  As other apparatus arrives from more distant locations, including 
auto aide water hauling tenders, increases in fire flow can be expected and utilized. 
 
Water Storage.  
Water for fire protection can utilize either stored water in an underground tank (cistern) or by 
access to a natural body of water.   The minimum amount of water storage is thirty thousand 
(30,000) gallons, which translates into two (2) hours of the minimum fire flow. 
 
The storage of two (2) hours of fire flow is an accepted fire service standard (IFC Appendix B) 
and is substantiated by the minimum requirements of the insurance standard.  The resulting 
cistern size of thirty thousand (30,000) gallons works well in a system approach to suppression 
water.  Natural Bodies of Water offer an excellent source for fire protection. 
 
