34 
 
(a) A reflectorized marker, with a minimum dimension of three (3) inches, shall be 
located on the driveway address sign signifying the hydrant location and on a fire-
retardant post located near the fire hydrant, and; 
 
(b) A fire-retardant reflectorized sign with the words “DRAFT WATER” or 
“PRESSURE WATER” having letters a minimum of four (4) inches in height, with 
½-inch stroke, reflectorized and contrasting to the background color, shall be located 
near the hydrant or access to water. 
 
(c) The signpost shall be within three (3) feet of said fire hydrant or access to water, with 
the sign no less than three (3) feet nor greater than five (5) feet above the ground and 
visible from the driveway. 
 
Chapter 6  Structural Design and Construction 
 
6-1 
General. All proposed buildings or structures in the wildland-urban interface or the 
wildland-urban intermix shall be designed and constructed to comply with the requirements of 
this chapter and with this standard.  All buildings and structures located in the National Forest 
shall be required to comply with the requirements of this chapter and with this standard.  
Agricultural properties, not located in a subdivision, shall have the applicability of this standard 
determined upon application for a building permit. 
 
6-1.1 Minimum Requirements. Structures and developments in or adjacent to wildland fire 
hazard areas shall be located, designed, and constructed in a manner to minimize the possibility 
of ignition from a wildfire and to minimize the spread of a structural fire to the wildland. 
 
6-2 
Roofing. Only listed roof covering tested and rated in accordance with UL 790, NFPA 
256, Standard Methods of Fire Tests of Roof Coverings; ASTM E 108, Standard Test Methods 
for Fire Tests of Roof Coverings; or equivalent, shall be used.  Subdivision covenants, 
conditions, and restrictions shall not require the use of roof covering materials that do not meet 
this Standard. 
 
6-2.1 Wood Shakes and Wood Shingles. Wood shakes and wood shingles are prohibited 
within the boundaries of the Wildfire Hazard Overlay District. 
 
6-2.2 Replacement or Repair of Roof Coverings. The roof covering on buildings or 
structures in existence prior to the adoption of this standard that are replaced or have 100 square 
feet or more replaced in a 12-month period shall be replaced entirely with a roof covering 
required for new construction in accordance with Chapter 7 of this Standard. 
 
6-3 
Vents. Vents for attic and subfloor ventilation shall be screened with a corrosion-
resistant, noncombustible wire mesh with the mesh not to exceed nominal 1/8 inches in size. 
 
6-4 
Exterior Vertical Walls. Exterior vertical walls shall be constructed of at least ½-inch 
nominal sheathing or equivalent material and shall extend from the top of the foundation to the 
roof line. 
