RV502.2 EV Ready Spaces. Each EV ready space shall have a branch circuit that complies with all of the 
following:  
1. Terminates at a receptacle, located within 3 feet of each EV ready space it serves. EV ready includes 
two adjacent parking spaces if the receptacle for the electrical faciliƟes of this secƟon is installed 
adjacent to and between both parking spaces.   
2. Has a minimum circuit capacity of 8.3 kVA (40A 208/240V).  
3. The electrical panel, electrical distribuƟon equipment directory, and all outlets or enclosures shall 
be marked “For future electric vehicle supply equipment”.  
ExcepƟon: A receptacle need not be provided if a hard-wired EVSE is installed.  
RV502.3 IdenƟﬁcaƟon. ConstrucƟon documents shall designate the EV ready space and indicate the 
locaƟons of raceway and/or conduit and the terminaƟon points serving them. The circuits or spaces 
reserved in the electrical panel for EV ready spaces shall be clearly idenƟﬁed in the panel or subpanel 
directory.   
PART 2 COMMERCIAL ELECTRIC VEHICLE READY  
SECTION CV501 SCOPE  
CV501.1 General. These provisions shall be applicable for all new buildings, and major renovaƟons and 
addiƟons.  
SECTION CV502 ELECTRIC VEHICLE POWER TRANSFER INFRASTRUCTURE  
CV502 Electric Vehicle Power Transfer Infrastructure. Where new parking is provided for commercial 
buildings, it shall be provided with electric vehicle power transfer infrastructure in compliance with 
SecƟons CV502.1 through CV502.9.  
CV502.1 QuanƟty. The number of required EVSE installed spaces, EV ready spaces, EV capable spaces, and 
EV capable light spaces shall be determined in accordance with this SecƟon and Table CV502.1 based on 
the total number of provided vehicle parking spaces and shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. 
This includes all covered parking under carports or detached garages.  
CV502.1.1 Where more than one parking lot is provided on a building site, the number of provided 
vehicle parking spaces required to have EV power transfer infrastructure shall be calculated 
separately for each parking lot.  
78
