41 
 
Section 1 Administration 
 
1-1 
Scope.   
This standard defines the minimum requirements for fire protection water supplies   necessary 
for the protection of property in rural areas of Douglas County.  This standard applies to new 
parcels in rural areas in which adequate and reliable water supplies do not exist and shall apply 
to all portions of unincorporated Douglas County.  Douglas County subdivision regulations may 
require greater amounts of water storage. Where, in any specific case, the amount of water 
storage for rural fire fighting conflicts with the International Fire Code for Group R- 3 
occupancies, the requirements of this chapter shall govern. 
 
1-2 
 Purpose. 
This standard specifies minimum requirements for water supply for firefighting purposes to 
protect property from fire in areas where water must be transported from a river, lake, canal, 
stream, pond, cistern, or other similar source of water that is available as a suction supply for fire 
department use.  A hydrant served by a water distribution system shall be permitted to be the 
source of supply for water that is transported to the rural fire area. 
 
It is the intent of this standard to provide and maintain water supplies for firefighting purposes 
through the establishment of a cooperative working arrangement among the Douglas County Fire 
Districts, the developers of rural parcels, and the property owners. 
1-3 
Referenced Criteria.  
The fire protection water requirements in this standard are based in part on NFPA 1142, NFPA 
1144, ISO Fire Suppression Rating Schedule, and the International Fire Code.  The information 
from these publications was evaluated and incorporated into this minimum standard in a manner 
which accounted for the actual fire flow and storage amounts, the ability of Douglas County Fire 
Districts to utilize the water, the need to account for increased and more effective operations as 
the fire districts strive to obtain the improved fire insurance ratings for their citizens, and the 
existing but sometimes unrecorded or undeveloped natural water sources within Douglas County. 
 
1-4 
Definitions. 
Accessible.  A condition that allows for fire department vehicles to approach and connect to a 
water supply. It shall be an all-weather road surface, capable of supporting a 20-ton fire 
apparatus, and it shall be maintained during all weather conditions to assure unimpeded vehicular 
access every day of the year. 
 
Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ).  The Douglas County Building Official shall be the 
“authority having jurisdiction”.    
 
Cistern.  A water storage tank, usually underground and designed with positive pressure, 
designed to contain a designated volume of water and to permit the removal of water at no less 
than 1,000 gallons per minute. 
 
Dry Barrel Hydrant.  An outlet, for suction supply of fire protection water, connected to a 
cistern, which is designed with positive pressure and / or requires freeze protection.  Dry barrel 
hydrants shall have a five (5) inch National Standard Thread (NST) outlet and be adapted for the 
