Code. The solar-ready zone shall be composed of areas not less than 5 feet in width and not less than 80 
square feet exclusive of access or setback areas as required by the InternaƟonal Fire Code.  
ExcepƟon: New townhouses three stories or less in height above grade plane and with a total ﬂoor 
area less than or equal to 2,000 square feet of condiƟoned space per townhouse unit shall have a 
solar-ready zone area of not less than 150 square feet.   
RS402.4 ObstrucƟons. Solar-ready zones shall be free from obstrucƟons, including but not limited to, 
vents, chimneys, and roof-mounted equipment.  
RS402.5 Shading. The solar-ready zone shall be set back from any exisƟng or new permanently aﬃxed 
object on the building or site that is located south, east, or west of the solar-ready zone a distance not less 
than two Ɵmes the object’s height above the nearest point on the roof surface. Such objects include, but 
are not limited to, taller porƟons of the building itself, parapets, chimneys, antennas, signage, rooŌop 
equipment, trees, and roof planƟngs either exisƟng at the Ɵme of permit applicaƟon or planned for on the 
construcƟon documents.  
RS402.6 Roof Load DocumentaƟon. The structural design loads of roof dead load and roof live load shall 
be clearly indicated on the construcƟon documents.  
RS402.7 InterconnecƟon Pathway. ConstrucƟon documents shall indicate at least one potenƟal pathway 
for rouƟng of conduit and/or raceway from the solar-ready zone to the electrical service panel and shall 
be labeled as “PotenƟal Pathway” on the construcƟon documents.  
RS402.8 Electrical Service Reserved Space. The main electrical service panel shall have suﬃcient reserved 
space to allow the installaƟon of a dual pole circuit breaker for future solar electric installaƟon and shall 
be labeled “For Future Solar Electric.” The reserved space shall be posiƟoned at the opposite (load) end 
from the input feeder locaƟon or main circuit locaƟon.  
RS402.9 ConstrucƟon DocumentaƟon CerƟﬁcate. A permanent cerƟﬁcate, indicaƟng the solar-ready zone 
and other requirements of this Part, shall be posted near the electrical distribuƟon panel, water heater, or 
other conspicuous locaƟon.  
PART 2 COMMERCIAL SOLAR READY  
SECTION CS401 SCOPE  
74
