108.3 Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the code oﬃcial shall not be required to give a 
wriƩen noƟce prior to stopping the work.  
108.4 Failure to Comply. Any person who shall conƟnue any work aŌer having been served with 
a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violaƟon or 
unsafe condiƟon, shall be subject to ﬁnes established by Douglas County Building Division.  
SECTION 109 BOARD OF APPEALS.  
109.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinaƟons made 
by the code oﬃcial relaƟve to the applicaƟon and interpretaƟon of this code, there shall be and is 
hereby created a board of appeals. The code oﬃcial shall be an ex oﬃcio member of said board 
but shall not have a vote on any maƩer before the board. The board of appeals shall be appointed 
by the governing body and shall hold oﬃce at its pleasure. The board shall adopt rules of 
procedure for conducƟng its business and shall render all decisions and ﬁndings in wriƟng to the 
appellant with a duplicate copy to the code oﬃcial.  
109.2 LimitaƟons on Authority. An applicaƟon for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true 
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the 
provisions of this code do not fully apply or an equally good or beƩer form of construcƟon is 
proposed. The board shall not have the authority to waive the requirements of this code.  
109.3 QualiﬁcaƟons. The board of appeals shall consist of members who are qualiﬁed by 
experience and training and are not employees of Douglas County.  
Chapter 2 DeﬁniƟons  
SECTION 201 GENERAL.  
201.1 Scope. Unless stated otherwise, the following words and terms in this code shall have the meanings 
indicated in this chapter.  
201.2 Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the masculine 
gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes the plural and the plural includes 
the singular.  
66
