49 
 
Exhibit D 
INSTALLATION STANDARDS FOR POTABLE WATER STORAGE TANKS AND 
CISTERNS FOR DOMESTIC USE IS - 22 – 98 
 
This standard shall govern the installation of potable water storage tanks and underground 
cisterns for domestic water use in dwellings. This standard includes both interior and exterior 
underground installations and establishes minimum standards for installation. Interior 
installations are recommended because they are more suitable for periodic inspection and 
maintenance by the homeowner. 
This standard shall be utilized only when a reliable source of water is not available. In areas 
where wells are the primary source of water, a well test shall be performed to indicate the gallons 
per minute flow from the well. If the well fails to produce water or the flow is deemed 
inadequate by the authority having jurisdiction, only then shall this standard be utilized. 
 
This standard shall apply to all new dwellings and additions or alterations where bedrooms are 
being added. In cases where existing wells are being used, a well test must be performed to indicate 
the gallons per minute flow from the well.  
 
301.1 
Minimum Standards. 
 
301.1.1 Potable water above ground storage tanks and underground cisterns shall be of 
materials that are listed for potable use and approved by FDA Title 21, NSF, or AWWA. 
Steel and concrete tanks must be properly prepared and painted on the inside using an 
NSF epoxy paint. Additionally, underground steel tanks must be asphaltic coated, or 
epoxy coated on the outside to retard rusting. 
 
301.1.2 Concrete cisterns or vaults shall be of such design that there are no seams below 
the fill line of the tank or vault. Concrete cisterns or vaults shall be properly prepared and 
coated on the inside using an NSF approved epoxy paint. 
 
301.1.3 All piping, fittings, and valves must meet the mandatory referenced standards 
included in Chapter 14 of the 2024 International Plumbing Code. 
 
301.1.4 The minimum capacity of water storage required for a single-family dwelling 
shall be based upon a formula using 80 gallons of water per day, per person. Homes 
served by wells producing less than .5 gallons per minute shall be sized for a minimum 
5-day supply. Homes served by wells producing .5 gallons per minute and greater shall 
be sized for 3-day supply. The number of persons shall be based on a bedroom count 
assuming that the first bedroom will count for two people and additional bedrooms 
counting for one person (i.e., 3-bedroom house counts for 4 people and requires 960 
gallons storage if gpm is .5 gpm or greater and 1600 gallons of storage if less than .5 
gallons). The actual storage capacity of the pressure tank and the water heater may be 
taken into consideration for the total amount of water storage required. 
