42 
 
local fire district suction hose.  Dry barrel hydrants shall meet the requirements of American 
Water Works Association (AWWA C502-85 Standard for Dry Barrel Hydrants). 
 
Dry Hydrant.  An outlet for suction supply of fire protection water connected to a natural body 
of water or cistern, which is designed without positive pressure or does not require freeze 
protection.  Dry hydrants shall have a five (5) inch National Standard Thread (NST) outlet and 
be adapted for local fire district suction hose.  Dry hydrants shall meet the requirements of the 
dry hydrant section of this standard and the Dry Hydrant Manual in Appendix B. 
 
Fire Flow.  The total amount of water expressed in volume at a prescribed rate (in gallons per 
minute) applied to suppress a fire and protect exposures. 
 
ISO.  The Insurance Service Office. 
 
Natural Body of Water.  A river, lake, canal, stream, or pond which, if upon evaluation is 
deemed acceptable during drought or freezing weather, could be utilized as a reliable and 
adequate source of water for fire protection. 
Section 2 Rural Water Supply Standard for One and Two-Family Dwellings 
 
2-1* 
General. 
The standard requires a water supply system which is capable of providing two hundred fifty 
(250) gallons per minute (GPM) fire flow, with water storage sufficient to maintain the fire flow 
for a duration of two (2) hours.  The water storage shall not be more than two (2) miles travel 
distance from the vehicular entrance to any parcel served by the water storage site.  The water 
storage facility shall be funded and installed by the developer/owner prior to construction of any 
structure within the development. 
 
2-1.1 Water Supply Evaluation Criteria.  
The Fire Districts within Douglas County shall perform a survey of all developed water supplies 
suitable for fire protection use within their respective jurisdictions.  This information shall be 
compiled into a usable format and shall be kept in the office of the Building Official for Douglas 
County.  All Fire Districts shall be responsible for providing updated information to the Building 
Official, to maintain a current County Water Supply Report. 
 
When reviewing proposed developments, the Building Official shall consult with the Fire 
District for a joint review of existing water for fire protection, utilizing the County Water Supply 
Report.  This review shall evaluate water supplies within the Fire District’s jurisdiction as well as 
those located within the two (2) miles travel distance within neighboring jurisdictions.  All 
currently recognized water supplies shall be credited when determining the need for and the 
placement of new water storage sites. 
 
2-1.2 Application. 
This standard shall apply to all new rural developments that contain or create four (4) or more 
residential parcels.  Developments legally in existence at the time of the adoption of this 
standard, or new developments that contain or create less than four (4) residential parcels, and 
