 
form in which it is used, is either one of the following: 
1. Material of which no part will ignite and burn when subjected to fire. 
2. Any material conforming to ASTM E136 shall be considered noncombustible within the 
meaning of this section. 
3. For the purposes of this code, fire-rated gypsum board tested in accordance with ASTM 
C1396 with no less than a 1-hour fire-resistance-rating with fire exposure from the outside 
only is considered a noncombustible material. 
OCCUPIABLE SPACE. A room or enclosed space designed for human occupancy in which 
individuals congregate for amusement, education or similar purposes or in which occupants are 
engaged at labor. 
ROOF ASSEMBLY. A system designed to provide weather protection and resistance to design 
loads. The system consists of a roof covering and roof deck or a single component serving as both 
the roof covering and the roof deck. A roof assembly can include an underlayment, thermal barrier, 
ignition barrier, insulation or a vapor retarder. 
ROOF COVERING. The covering applied to the roof deck for weather resistance, fire 
classification or appearance. 
ROOF DECK. The flat or sloped surface not including its supporting members or vertical 
supports. 
SLOPE. The variation of terrain from the horizontal; the number of feet rise or fall per 100 feet 
measured horizontally, expressed as a percentage. 
STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed. 
STRUCTURE IGNITION ZONE. Structure Ignition Zone is the structure and the area around 
the structure (or home). The SIZ takes into account both the potential of the structure to ignite and 
the quality of defensible space surrounding it. 
TREE CROWN. The primary and secondary branches growing out from the main stem, together 
with twigs and foliage. 
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE. The geographic areas within Douglas County identified 
on the Colorado Wildfire Resiliency Code Map where structures and other human development 
meet or intermingle with wildland or vegetative fuels.
12
