31 
 
(c) 
Size of fuel bed (acres) 
 
(d) 
Slope and aspect 
 
3-2.1 Fuel-type Identification. All fuel, natural vegetation, as well as other flammable 
materials existing within the area shall be identified and rated as its potential to increase the 
hazard.  The ease of ignition and ability to assist in the spread of fire are important factors. 
 
3-2.2 Fuel Loading. The volume of fuels, both presently existing and likely to be present under 
expected development, shall be estimated and included on maps. 
 
3-2.3 Slope. Percent of slope and aspect shall be determined and indicated during the 
assessment process. 
 
3-2.4 Fuel Modification. The purpose of the fuel modification effort shall be to reduce the 
volume of vegetative fuel to protect structures from approaching wildfire as well as to reduce the 
potential for a structure fire from spreading to the wildland.  The fuel modification shall be 
initially provided by the developer prior to building permit issuance for buildings or structures, 
through the implementation of a Douglas County approved wildfire mitigation or forest 
management plan and shall be maintained by the property owner. Additional fuel modification 
may be required when buildings or structures are proposed through the building permit process 
to create defensible space management zones around buildings or structures. The permit process 
will require the applicant to create and maintain defensible space of 100 feet from each side and 
from the front and rear of the structure or to the property line, whichever comes first. 
 
3-2.5 Maintenance of Defensible Space. 
 
Responsibility. Persons owning, leasing, controlling, operating, or maintaining buildings or 
structures are responsible for maintenance of defensible space. Fuels shall be maintained and 
spaced in a condition so that a wildfire burning under average weather conditions would be 
unlikely to ignite the structure including, but not limited to removing non-fire resistive 
vegetation and keeping leaves, needles and other dead vegetative material regularly removed 
from roofs of buildings and the area immediately adjacent to structures. 
 
Trees. Prune tree branches extending to within 10 feet of any structure to maintain a minimum 
horizontal clearance of 10 feet. Prune tree branches within the defensible space to remove limbs 
located less than 10 feet above the ground surface adjacent to trees. Prune portions of tree 
branches that extend within 10 feet of the outlet of a chimney to maintain a minimum horizontal 
clearance of 10 feet.  
 
3-3 
Defensible Space Management Zones.   
Zone 1 is the area of maximum modification and treatment. It consists of an area of 5 feet 
around the structure in which all flammable native vegetation is removed. These 5 feet are 
generally measured from the outside edge of the building or structure’s eaves and any attached 
structures, such as decks.  
