CE302.1 AddiƟonal Electric Infrastructure.  CombusƟon equipment in commercial buildings shall meet the 
electric infrastructure requirements of SecƟons CE302.2 or CE302.3.  
ExcepƟons:  
1. 
Interior ﬁreplaces that do not serve as a primary source of heaƟng.  
2. 
Exterior ﬁreplaces and ﬁre pits.  
3. 
AddiƟons to buildings that do not provide new space-heaƟng equipment will not be 
required to provide addiƟonal electrical infrastructure to the exisƟng space-heaƟng 
equipment.    
CE302.2 Commercial Buildings Less than 10,000 sq. Ō. and all R-Occupancies. Commercial buildings that 
have a gross ﬂoor area of less than 10,000 sq. Ō., and all Roccupancies of any size, shall comply with 
SecƟons CE302.2.1 through CE302.2.5.  
CE302.2.1 CombusƟon Equipment. CombusƟon equipment shall be provided with all of the 
following:  
1. A dedicated, appropriately phased branch circuit sized to accommodate future electric 
equipment or appliances to serve a comparable capacity to meet the heaƟng load.   
2. An electric receptacle or juncƟon box that meets the requirements of SecƟon CE302.2.5, 
and is connected to the electrical panel through the branch circuit. Each electrical 
receptacle or juncƟon box shall have reasonable access to the combusƟon equipment or 
dedicated physical space for future electric equipment with no obstrucƟons other than the 
current combusƟon equipment.  
3. Where combusƟon equipment is used for space or water heaƟng, dedicated space shall 
be provided for all future electric equipment, including an electric resistance backup coil 
for ducted systems if applicable.  
ExcepƟon: Buildings with installed air condiƟoning systems are not required to provide 
addiƟonal dedicated physical space for an outdoor heat pump.  
CE302.2.2 Electrical Panel Space. The electrical panel shall have reserved physical space for a 
minimum two-pole or three-pole circuit breaker for each branch circuit provided for future electric 
equipment or appliances. The physical space in the electrical panel for each circuit breaker shall 
71
