5 
 
10.3.7 Re-inspection fee 
When an inspection has been requested for work that has not been completed, or for 
identified deviancies that have not been corrected, a re-inspection fee may be assessed.  
 
 
Re-inspection fees may be assessed when: the inspection record card is not posted or 
otherwise available on the work site, the approved plans are not readily available to the 
inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which the inspection is requested, 
or for deviating from approved plans. 
 
When re-inspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspections will be 
performed until the required fees have been paid.  Re-inspection fees shall be in 
accordance with Table 10.3.  
 
10.3.8 Investigation fee 
Investigation fees shall be determined in accordance with Table 10.3. 
 
10.3.8.1 Work commencing before permit issuance 
Investigation fees may be assessed for work regulated by this Resolution that 
commences prior to a valid permit being issued.  An investigation fee may amount 
to two times the calculated permit fee. 
 
10.3.9 Elevator/escalator inspection fee 
 A conveyance inspection fee in accordance with the Douglas County Administrative 
Fee Schedule shall be paid for each separate elevator/escalator installed in the county. 
These fees shall cover annual safety inspections and witness inspections as required by 
the State. Notice of the fee shall be given to each conveyance owner by the Building 
Division for the specific inspection service provided. 
 
10.3.10 Use Tax A Use Tax on construction and building materials shall be collected 
at time of permit issuance for most types of permits, in accordance with Resolution R-
994-147 and approval by registered electors at general election, and as modified by 
subsequent statutorily authorized public approval processes.      
 
10.4 Refunds 
The Building Official may authorize the refunding of fees for the following: 
  
1. The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected. 
  
2. Not more than 80% of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under a permit 
issued in accordance with this code. 
  
3. Not more than 80% of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for 
which a plan review fee has been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any plan review 
effort has been expended. 
 
