8 
 
20.0 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION  
Add new section and subsections 
 
20.1 General 
No contractor shall hire, employ, contract with, or engage another person to perform any 
construction work unless the person so hired, employed, contracted with, or engaged to 
perform construction work is registered with Douglas County Building Division.   
Exceptions: 
1. A homeowner is not required to register and is exempt from this Section. 
2. Construction trades other than mechanical, electrical, and plumbing performing 
work under a registered general contractor are not required to be registered. 
 
A contractor shall be responsible for all work included under the scope of the contractors’ 
registration regardless of whether such work is done by the contractor directly or by a sub-
contractor which is exempt pursuant to this Section. 
 
It shall be the duty of any applicant for electrical or plumbing registration to furnish copies 
of the State contractor’s license, master’s license and to send updates as new State licenses 
are issued, or if licensed tradespersons are replaced.  No permits for electrical wiring or 
plumbing work may be issued to any applicant unless such State license is properly verified 
and registered. 
 
Permits will only be issued to a registered contractor or their authorized representative. 
 
20.2 Definitions 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR 
A contractor is any person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or other 
organization, or any combination thereof, who builds, constructs, alters, adds to, or repairs 
any building or structure either on its own property, or who supervises or advises on any 
such activity, or hires and pays subcontractors. 
 
HOMEOWNER 
The owner of the property who elects to act as an owner-builder for their residential 
dwelling or accessory structure, as defined in the International Residential Code (IRC).  A 
homeowner may secure a permit on only one residential dwelling in a twelve (12) month 
period with the intent of occupying the structure upon completion.  Any person who builds 
two or more residences in unincorporated Douglas County in any twelve (12) month period 
shall be deemed to be a contractor, who must then comply with Section 20.0. 
 
20.3 Class of registration 
It shall be unlawful to perform work which is not authorized under the scope or limits of 
work for which such registration was issued.  Registration classifications are as follows: 
 
20.3.1 Building contractor – CLASS “A”  
This registration shall entitle the holder to contract for the construction, alteration, 
tenant finish, or repair of any type or size of structure permitted by the International 
Building Code (IBC) or International Residential Code (IRC). 
