32 
 
                                     
 
Figure 3-3: Forested property showing the three fire-defensible zones around a home or other 
structure. 
Zone 2 is an area of fuel reduction. It is a transitional area between zones 1 and 3. The defensible 
zone, or home ignition zone (HIZ) consisting of the home or structure itself, zone 1 and zone 2, 
shall extend at least 100 feet from the structure unless limited by property boundaries. Within 
this zone, the continuity and arrangement of vegetation is modified.  The intensity of fuels 
management may vary within the 100-foot perimeter of the structure, with more intense fuel 
reductions being utilized between 5 and 30 feet around the structure.  Examples of fuel 
modifications include but are not limited to removal of stressed, diseased, dead, or dying trees 
and shrubs; thinning and pruning the remaining larger trees and shrubs; extending thinning along 
either side of the driveway all the way to the main access road. These actions help eliminate the 
continuous fuel surrounding a structure while enhancing safety and the aesthetics of the property. 
Zone 3 is an area of traditional forest management and is of no particular size. It extends from 
the edge of the defensible space zone to the property boundaries. 
3-3.1 Modification of Fuel Types. Where consistent with ecological factors, less fire-prone, 
native vegetation shall be encouraged. 
 
3-3.2 Reduction of Fuel Loading. Trees and brush shall be cleared away from structures for a 
distance that is in accordance with section 3-3 to prevent ignition of either the structure or the 
vegetation, should the other burn.  Vegetation existing away from the immediate area of the 
structure shall be thinned and pruned to prevent a fire from being carried toward or away from 
the structure.  Annual grasses shall be mowed to 6 inches or less in accordance with Figure 6.  
Ground litter shall be removed annually.  Over-mature, dead, and dying trees shall be evaluated 
as to their potential to ignite and to carry fire.  All trees determined to contain such potential 
shall be removed. 
 
3-3.3 Mitigation of Slope and Aspect Impact. Slope and aspect greatly affect the potential for 
carrying fire, and very little opportunity exists to modify them directly.  Where the degree of 
slope or aspect is determined to affect the hazards, fuels will require a greater degree of 
modification or fuel breaks shall be required.  
 
