County Building Division determines enforcement of the provisions of this code will result in 
unnecessary hardship.  
102.2 SubstanƟal Cost DiﬀerenƟal Waiver. Douglas County Building Division shall be permiƩed to 
authorize, upon appeal, a waiver from the requirements of this code for an applicant that asserts that 
compliance with this code will result in a substanƟal cost diﬀerenƟal. Douglas County Building Division, 
when authorizing such a waiver, shall be permiƩed to waive certain requirements of this code only unƟl 
the cost diﬀerenƟal for compliance with the remaining requirements reaches one percent or less. The 
burden of proof is upon the applicant to provide substanƟaƟon of a cost diﬀerenƟal, such as quotes or 
other licensed design professional analyses as approved by Douglas County Building Division.  
102.2.1 SubstanƟal Cost DiﬀerenƟal. For the purposes of SecƟon 102.2, “substanƟal cost 
diﬀerenƟal” means costs incurred as a result of compliance with the requirements of this code 
would exceed one percent of total mechanical, electrical, and plumbing construcƟon costs 
inclusive of materials and labor.  
SECTION 103 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.   
103.1 General. ConstrucƟon documents and other supporƟng data shall be submiƩed in one or more sets, 
or in a digital format where allowed by the code oﬃcial, with each applicaƟon for a permit. The 
construcƟon documents shall be prepared by a registered design professional where required by the 
statutes of the jurisdicƟon in which the project is to be constructed. Where special condiƟons exist, the 
code oﬃcial is authorized to require necessary construcƟon documents to be prepared by a registered 
design professional.  
ExcepƟon: The code oﬃcial is authorized to waive the requirements for construcƟon documents 
or other supporƟng data if the code oﬃcial determines they are not necessary to conﬁrm 
compliance with this code.  
103.2 InformaƟon on ConstrucƟon Documents. ConstrucƟon documents shall be drawn to scale on 
suitable material. Electronic media documents are permiƩed to be submiƩed where approved by the code 
oﬃcial. ConstrucƟon documents shall be of suﬃcient clarity to indicate the locaƟon, nature, and extent of 
the work proposed, and show in suﬃcient detail perƟnent data and features of the building, systems, and 
equipment as herein governed. Details shall include, but are not limited to, the following as applicable:  
1. LocaƟon and size of the solar-ready zone.  
2. Structural design loads of roof dead load and roof live load.  
60
