12 
 
officio member of, and shall act as secretary to said BOR, but shall have no vote on any 
matter before the BOR. The BOR shall operate as and perform the duties of the Board of 
Review, pursuant to Section 30-28-206, C.R.S. the BOR shall be appointed by the Douglas 
County Board of County Commissioners and any member of the BOR may be removed for 
cause by the Douglas County Board of County Commissioners. The BOR shall consist of 
no less than three members nor more than five members.  The member’s terms shall be of 
such length and such arrangement that the term of at least one member shall expire each 
year. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term in the same manner as in the case of 
original appointments. The Douglas County Board of County Commissioners shall provide 
for general rules to cover the organization, procedure, and jurisdiction of the BOR. The 
BOR may adopt supplemental rules of procedure not inconsistent with Article 28, Title 30, 
C.R.S. or such general rules. The BOR shall render all decisions and finding, in writing, to 
the appellant. A duplicate copy shall be sent to the Building Official. 
 
30.2 Limitations on authority  
Pursuant to Section 30-28-206, C.R.S., the BOR, in appropriate cases and subject to a 
determination as to the suitability of alternate materials and methods of construction, may 
make special exceptions to the terms of the Building Code in harmony with its purpose 
and intent. The BOR shall have no authority to waive requirements of this Code or 
provide product approvals. 
 
30.3 Qualifications 
The BOR shall consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on 
matters pertaining to building construction and are not employees of the jurisdiction. 
 
30.4 Code amendments  
Pursuant to Section 30-28-206(2), C.R.S., the BOR is authorized to formulate suggested 
amendments to the Douglas County Building Code for consideration by the Douglas 
County Board of County Commissioners. 
 
30.5 Administration 
The Building Official shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision of the 
BOR. 
 
30.6 Fees 
The fee for a hearing before the Board of Review shall be $250.00. The fee is non-
refundable. 
 
40.0 NOISE MITIGATION  
 
Add new section and subsections 
 
40.1 Interior Noise Level  
All new structures, and the alteration or repair of existing structures, that are located in the 
Centennial Airport Review Area (CARA) as defined in Section 19 of the Douglas County 
Zoning Resolution and as amended, requiring noise mitigation, shall comply with this 
following.  
 
