43 
 
additions or modifications to existing homes, are not required to provide minimum water 
supplies or upgrade existing water supplies to meet this standard. 
 
2-1.3 Design Approval. 
One (1) set of installation drawings, manufacturer’s installation instructions, and a site plan shall 
be submitted to the Building Official for approval, and all permits required by Douglas County 
shall be obtained.  All water storage systems shall be installed according to manufacturer’s 
installation instructions.  The Fire District and the Building Official may inspect the installation 
at any time. 
 
2-2*     Cistern Design. 
 
2-2.1 Tank Size. 
The minimum tank capacity shall not be less than thirty thousand (30,000) gallons.  Two smaller 
tanks may be utilized in areas which may present unique installation problems.  If two smaller 
tanks are installed, they must be connected to allow proper filling as well as discharge, and the 
combined capacity of both tanks shall not be less than thirty thousand (30,000) gallons. 
 
2-2.2 Tank Material. 
All water supply tanks shall be constructed of steel, fiberglass, plastic, or engineered concrete 
and shall be approved by the manufacturer to be appropriate for non-potable water storage.  Steel 
tanks shall be coated and shall be provided with cathodic protection.  Fiberglass and plastic tanks 
shall be constructed in accordance with appropriate ASTM Standards.  Tanks and associated 
piping and appurtenances shall be new and have been used for no other purpose. 
 
2-2.3 Outlet Piping. 
All discharge piping shall be a minimum of six (6) inch diameter PVC Schedule Forty (40).  
Drain, waste and vent (DWV) pipe and fittings are not acceptable. 
 
2-2.4 Fittings. 
All fittings shall be of the type and schedule to be compatible with the piping being used. 
 
2-2.5 Tank Access. 
Tanks shall have a manhole or other approved means of access for tank inspection and repair.  
This access shall be capable of being closed and secured for purposes of safety. 
 
2-2.6 Tank Fill Valve. 
A tank fill valve shall be installed on the supply line from the well and shall be controlled by an 
approved tank level sensor that will ensure that the tank remains full. 
 
 
 
2-2.7 Suction Supply Outlet. 
All water supply cisterns shall have a minimum of one outlet that meets the size and design 
requirements of the local fire district. Cisterns designed with positive pressure and systems with 
