2. The installed raceway and/or conduit shall be sized and rated to supply a minimum of 208 volts 
and a minimum of 40-ampere rated circuits.  
3. The electrical panel or other electrical distribuƟon equipment to which the raceway and/or 
conduit connects shall have suﬃcient dedicated space and spare electrical capacity to supply a 
minimum of 208 volts and a minimum of 40-ampere rated circuits.  
4. The terminaƟon point of the conduit and/or raceway and the electrical distribuƟon equipment 
directory shall be marked: “For future electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE).”  
5. Reserved capacity shall be no less than 8.3 kVA (40A 208/240V) for each EV capable space.  
CV502.4 EV Ready Spaces. Each EV ready space shall have a branch circuit that complies with all of the 
following:  
1. Terminates at a receptacle or juncƟon box located within 3 feet of each EV ready space it serves. 
EV ready includes two adjacent parking spaces if the receptacle is installed adjacent to and 
between both parking spaces.   
2. Has a minimum circuit capacity of 8.3 kVA (40A 208/240V).  
3. The electrical panel, electrical distribuƟon equipment directory, and all outlets or enclosures shall 
be marked “For future electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE).”  
CV502.5 Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE). All EVSE shall meet all of the following requirements:   
1. The installed EVSE shall meet one of the following requirements:  
a. A power capacity of at least 6.2 kVa (or 30A at 208/240V) and has the ability to connect to the 
internet.  
b. An inducƟve charging system for baƩery-powered electric vehicles that:  
i. 
Is ENERGY STAR cerƟﬁed; and  
ii. 
Has the ability to connect to the internet.  
2. An electric vehicle charging system shall be wall-mounted or pedestal style and may provide 
mulƟple cords to connect with electric vehicles.   
3. An electric vehicle charging system shall be listed and labeled for EV charging and must comply 
with the current version of ArƟcle 625 of the NaƟonal Electrical Code.   
CV502.6 EVSE Installed Spaces. An installed EVSE with mulƟple output connecƟons shall be permiƩed to 
serve mulƟple EVSE installed spaces. Each EVSE installed serving either a single EVSE installed space or 
mulƟple EVSE installed spaces, shall comply with all of the following:  
1. Have a minimum charging rate in accordance with SecƟon CV502.7.  
81
