11 
 
mailing address provided by the contractor at time of registration.  The notice of suspension 
or revocation shall include information regarding the appeals process for the suspension or 
revocation, including the right of the contractor to appear before the Board of Appeals and 
show cause why the registration should not be suspended or revoked. At the hearing before 
the Board of Appeals, the contractor shall have the right to present their case by oral and 
documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, as may be required for a full and true 
disclosure of the facts. 
 
Suspension or revocation of a contractor’s registration shall not be construed to release the 
contractor from liabilities and obligations of completing his contract.  During the period 
prior to the hearing before the Board of Appeals, the contractor shall not be allowed to 
submit an application for any other projects. 
 
The Board of Appeals, after review of the evidence presented, shall have the power to 
suspend, revoke or reinstate a contractor’s registration for good cause shown.  Good cause 
includes, but is not limited, to the following: 
 
1. Violating any provisions of the Douglas County Building Code including any codes 
which are adopted by reference. 
 
2. Failure to comply with any lawful order of the Building Official or any other authorized 
representative of the Building Division pertaining to the administration of the building 
code and those codes adopted by reference.   
 
3. Using a contractor’s registration to obtain a permit required under this code for any 
other person, corporation, or legal entity. 
 
4. Failure to reveal any material fact in the application for a contractor’s registration or 
permit, or the supplying of information which is untrue or misleading as to any material 
fact in the application, for a contractor’s registration or permit. 
 
5. Failure to obtain a proper permit for any work for which a permit is required. 
 
The Board of Appeals (BOA) may reinstate a registration for any contractor whose 
registration has been revoked, provided a majority of the BOA votes in favor of such 
reinstatement for such reason as the BOA may deem sufficient.  In such case where the 
contractor’s registration has been revoked and the contractor is petitioning the BOA for 
reinstatement, the petitioner shall follow the established policies for requesting such 
hearing and pay all applicable fees. 
 
30.0 BOARD OF REVIEW  
 
Add new section and subsections 
 
30.1 General 
In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations made by the 
Building Official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, there shall be 
and is hereby created a Board of Review (BOR).  The Building Official shall be an ex-
