Chapter 1 Scope and AdministraƟon  
SECTION 101 SCOPE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.  
101.1 Title. This code shall be known as the Electric Ready and Solar Ready Code of Douglas County 
Building Division and shall be cited as such. It is referred to herein as “this code”.  
101.2 Scope. This code applies to all buildings and dwelling units, and the buildings’ sites and associated 
systems and equipment.   
101.3 Intent. This code shall regulate the design and construcƟon of buildings to prepare new buildings 
for solar photovoltaic or solar thermal, electric vehicle charging infrastructure, and electriﬁcaƟon of 
building systems. This code is intended to provide ﬂexibility and balance upfront construcƟon costs with 
the future cost to retroﬁt buildings to accommodate these systems. This code is not intended to abridge 
safety, health or environmental requirements contained in other applicable codes or ordinances.   
101.4. Applicability. Where, in any speciﬁc case, diﬀerent secƟons of this code specify diﬀerent materials, 
methods of construcƟon or other requirements, the most restricƟve shall govern. Where there is a conﬂict 
between a general requirement and a speciﬁc requirement, the speciﬁc requirement shall govern.   
101.4.1 ResidenƟal Buildings. ResidenƟal buildings must comply with the ResidenƟal Chapters of 
this code.  
101.4.2 Commercial Buildings. Commercial buildings must comply with the Commercial Chapters 
of this code.  
SECTION 102 WAIVER AND VARIANCE.   
102.1 Scope. The following waivers shall be permiƩed to be requested if buildings meet the following 
requirements.   
102.1.1 Commercial Buildings Greater than 10,000 sq. Ō. Commercial buildings that have a gross 
ﬂoor area greater than 10,000 sq. Ō. shall be eligible to request a parƟal waiver to the 
requirements of this code if they meet the requirements of SecƟon 102.2.  
102.1.2 Buildings Impacted by a Natural Disaster. Douglas County Building Division is permiƩed 
to authorize, upon appeal in speciﬁc cases, a waiver from the requirements of this code where, 
owing to a declared natural disaster that has destroyed buildings or resulted in other excepƟonal 
and extraordinary circumstances as determined by Douglas County Building Division, and Douglas 
59
