 
the following methods: 
1. Exterior wall assemblies with a minimum of 1-hour fire-resistance rating, rated for exposure 
on the exterior side. 
2. Approved noncombustible materials. 
3. Heavy timber or log wall construction. 
4. Noncombustible materials complying with Section 402.2 on the exterior side. 
5. Fire-retardant treated wood complying with Section 402.3 on the exterior side. The fire-
retardant-treated wood shall be labeled for exterior use and meet the requirements of Section 
2303.2 of the 2024 International Building Code. 
6. Ignition-resistant materials complying with Section 402.4 on the exterior side. 
Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to the underside of the eave or the 
underside of the roof sheathing. 
Exceptions: 
1. Exterior wall embellishments and architectural trim (exclusive of trim on exterior 
windows and doors) not to exceed 5 percent of the square footage of the exterior wall. 
2. Roof or wall top cornice projections and similar assemblies. 
3. Solid wood rafter tails and solid wood blocking installed between rafters having 
minimum dimension 2 inch nominal. 
404.3.1 Exterior Wall Coverings. Exterior wall coverings shall be limited to the 
following: 
1. Noncombustible materials. 
2. Fire-retardant-treated wood. 
3. Ignition-resistant building materials. 
Exception: Where options 1 or 2 in section 404.3 are used, vinyl siding may be used 
as an exterior covering. 
404.3.2 Flashing. A minimum of 6 inches of metal flashing or noncombustible material 
applied vertically between the wall sheathing and the exterior cladding shall be installed at 
the ground, decking, and roof intersections. 
Combustible sheathing products exposed by the gap created at the base of the exterior 
walls, posts, or columns must be protected with noncombustible material or 
ignition-resistant building materials while still permitting drainage and moisture control 
from behind exterior cladding. 
404.4 Underfloor enclosure. Buildings or structures shall have underfloor areas enclosed to the 
ground or comply with exterior walls in accordance with Section 404.3. 
404.5 Decking. Unenclosed decks shall have the deck walking surface constructed of one of the 
following: 
1. Approved noncombustible materials 
2. Class A rated material 
Exception: Composite decking material with a minimum of Class B rating 
3. Fire-retardant-treated wood identified for exterior use and meeting the requirements 
of Section 2303.2 of the 2024 International Building Code 
4. Ignition-resistant building materials in accordance with Section 402.4. 
404.6 Appendages and Projections. Appendages and projections shall be constructed in 
19
