 
design and construction of a building or structure to safeguard against the spread of fire within a 
building or structure and the spread of fire to or from buildings or structures to the wildland-urban 
interface area. 
FIRE-RETARDANT-TREATED WOOD. Fire-retardant-treated wood is any wood product 
that, when impregnated with chemicals by a pressure process or other means during manufacture, 
shall have, when tested in accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723, a listed flame spread index of 
25 or less. The ASTM E84 or UL723 test shall be continued for an additional 20-minute period 
and the flame front shall not progress more than 10.5 feet beyond the centerline of the burners at 
any time during the test. 
FLAME SPREAD INDEX. A comparative measure, expressed as a dimensionless number, 
derived from visual measurements of the spread of flame versus time for a material tested in 
accordance with ASTM E84. 
FUEL MODIFICATION. A method of modifying fuel load by reducing the amount of nonfire-
resistive vegetation or altering the type of vegetation to reduce the fuel load. 
HABITABLE SPACE. A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. 
HEAVY TIMBER CONSTRUCTION.  As described in Section 602.4 of the 2024 
International Building Code. 
HOME IGNITION ZONE. Home Ignition Zone is the home and the area around the home (or 
structure). The HIZ takes into account both the potential of the structure to ignite and the quality 
of defensible space surrounding it. 
IGNITION-RESISTANT BUILDING MATERIAL. A type of building material that resists 
ignition or sustained flaming combustion sufficiently so as to reduce losses from wildfire exposure 
of burning embers and small flames. 
IGNITION-RESISTANT VEGETATION. Plants that are less likely to readily ignite from a 
flame or other ignition source and produce fewer embers. While they can still be damaged by fire, 
their foliage and stems don't significantly contribute to the intensity of the fire. 
LOG WALL CONSTRUCTION. A type of construction in which exterior walls are constructed 
of solid wood members and where the smallest horizontal dimension of each solid wood member 
is not less than 6 inches. Log wall construction shall follow requirements of ICC 400. 
MULTILAYERED GLAZED PANELS. Window or door assemblies that consist of two or more 
independently glazed panels installed parallel to each other, having a sealed air gap in between, 
within a frame designed to fill completely the window or door opening in which the assembly is 
intended to be installed. 
NONCOMBUSTIBLE. As applied to building construction material means a material that, in the 
11
