informaƟon and detailed statements have been ﬁled complying with all perƟnent requirements 
of this code. The holders of such permit shall proceed at their own risk without assurance that the 
permit for the enƟre solar ready, EV ready, or electric ready installaƟon will be granted.  
l03.4 Amended ConstrucƟon Documents. Changes made during construcƟon that are not in compliance 
with the approved construcƟon documents shall be resubmiƩed for approval as an amended set of 
construcƟon documents.  
103.5 RetenƟon of ConstrucƟon Documents. One set of approved construcƟon documents shall 
be retained by the code oﬃcial for a period of not less than 180 days from the date of compleƟon 
of the permiƩed work, or as required by state or local laws.  
103.6 Building DocumentaƟon and Closeout SubmiƩal Requirements. The construcƟon 
documents shall specify that the documents described in this secƟon be provided to the building 
owner or owner's authorized agent within 90 days of the date of receipt of the cerƟﬁcate of 
occupancy.  
ExcepƟon: ResidenƟal buildings.  
103.6.1 Record Documents. ConstrucƟon documents shall be updated to convey a record of the 
completed work. Such updates shall include mechanical, electrical, and control drawings that 
indicate all changes to size, type, and locaƟon of components, equipment, and assemblies.  
103.6.2 Compliance DocumentaƟon. Compliance documentaƟon and supporƟng calculaƟons 
shall be delivered in one document to the building owner as a part of the project record 
documents or manuals, or as a standalone document. This document shall include the speciﬁc 
energy code ediƟon uƟlized for compliance determinaƟon for each system.  
SECTION 104 INSPECTIONS.  
104.1 General. ConstrucƟon or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspecƟon 
by the code oﬃcial, his or her designated agent or an approved agency, and such construcƟon or 
work shall remain visible and able to be accessed for inspecƟon purposes unƟl approved. Approval 
as a result of an inspecƟon shall not be construed to be an approval of a violaƟon of the provisions 
of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdicƟon. InspecƟons presuming to give authority to 
violate or cancel the provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdicƟon shall not be 
valid. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain visible and/or able 
to be accessed for inspecƟon purposes. Neither the code oﬃcial nor the jurisdicƟon shall be liable 
62
