 
proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a 
historic structure, and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and 
design of the structure, within the spirit of this code. 
Exception: Within wildfire hazard areas, historic structures that do not meet one or more 
of the following designations: 
1. Listed or preliminarily determined to be eligible for listing in the National 
Register of Historic Places. 
2. Determined as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic 
district or a district preliminarily determined to qualify as an historic district. 
3. Designated as historic under a state or local historic preservation program. 
102.9.1 Historic preservation exemption. Douglas County may establish a historic 
preservation exemption or exemptions in their jurisdiction that consists of the spirit and 
intent of this code. 
102.10 Work exempt from permit under this code. Exemptions from code requirements shall 
not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the 
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of Douglas County. Compliance with this 
code shall not be required for the following: 
1. Interior alterations of existing structures. 
2. Additions that do not increase the footprint of a structure by more than 500 square feet. 
3. The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the exterior walls of an existing 
building, when less than 25 percent of the surface area of all exterior walls is affected. 
4. The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the exterior roof covering of an 
existing building, when less than 25 percent of the surface area of the exterior roof covering 
or an attachment thereto is affected. 
5. Alterations or repairs to the exterior of an existing structure, or an attachment to it, when 
less than twenty-five percent of the exterior of the structure is affected by the alteration or 
repair. 
6. Painting, staining and similar maintenance or restorative work. 
7. One-story detached accessory, nonhabitable structures, such as tool and storage sheds, 
playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet 
and the structure is located greater than or equal to 10 feet from the nearest adjacent 
occupiable structure. 
8. Accessory structures and buildings of an accessory character classified as Utility and 
Miscellaneous Group U (including Agricultural Structures) located more than 50 feet from 
a structure containing occupiable or habitable space. 
9. Fences located more than 8 feet from a habitable structure. 
10. Any thirty-five acre parcel with only one residential structure on it that does not abut a 
residential or commercial area. 
PART 2—ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT 
SECTION 103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY 
103.1 Creation of agency. The Douglas County Building Division is hereby the agency responsible 
4
