19 
 
Chapters 34 through 43.  
 
Delete Chapters in their entirety and substitute Chapters 
34 through 43 are deleted in their entirety and replaced by a new Chapter 34, General 
Requirements, which shall read as follows:  
 
CHAPTER 34  
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
 
E3401.1 Scope. This chapter governs all electrical components, equipment and systems used in 
buildings and structures regulated by this code.  
 
E3401.2 Criteria. All electrical components, equipment and systems shall be designed and 
constructed in accordance with the provisions of NFPA 70 (National Electric Code, NEC), as 
amended and adopted by Douglas County. 
 
AMENDMENTS TO THE 2024 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC) 
Note: Refer to the section “Amendments common to all adopted International 
Codes” for more information. 
 
Appendix C - Group U Agricultural Buildings 
Adopt Appendix 
 
Wildfire Mitigation Standards 
 
 
Adopt as an appendix 
Attached hereto, as “Exhibit B” 
 
 
 
Water Supply Standard for Rural Firefighting 
Adopt as an appendix 
Attached hereto, as “Exhibit C” 
 
Appendix Q– Solar Photovoltaic Power Systems  
Adopt as a new appendix 
 
Attached hereto, as “Exhibit E” 
 
101.1 Title 
[NAME OF JURISDICTION]  
Replace  
Douglas County Building Division  
Insert  
 
101.4.4 Property Maintenance  
 
 
Delete in its entirety 
 
105.2(2) Work exempt from permit (Building) 
 
Delete item 2 and substitute 
2. Fences, other than swimming pool barriers, not over 7 feet high, unless electrically 
energized. All electrified fences shall require permitting and compliance with this code, 
the adopted National Electrical Code and International Fire Code as amended and adopted 
by Douglas County.  
 
Work exempted from permit under Section 105.2 shall comply with the Douglas County 
Wildfire Resiliency Code when applicable. 
 
105.3(8) Application for permit 
 
 
 
Add a new section  
Soils testing shall be performed, and a Soils Report of the building site prepared by a 
professional engineer registered by the State of Colorado shall be submitted with the 
