 
and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The function of the agency 
shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code. 
103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be the Douglas County Chief Building Official. 
103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of Douglas County, the code 
official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, 
inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code 
official. 
 
SECTION 104—DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL 
104.1 Powers and duties of the code official. The code official is hereby authorized to enforce 
the provisions of this code. 
104.2 Determination of compliance. The code official shall have the authority to determine 
compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and 
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies and 
procedures: 
1. Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code. 
2. Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code. 
104.2.1 Technical assistance. To determine compliance with this code, the code official 
is authorized to require the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or the person in possession 
or control of the building or premises to provide a technical opinion and report. 
104.2.1.1 Costs. A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to 
Douglas County. 
104.2.1.2 Preparer qualifications. The technical opinion and report shall be prepared 
by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization 
acceptable to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design 
submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional. 
104.2.1.3 Content. The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the 
design, operation or use of the building or premises, the facilities and appurtenances 
situated thereon and fuel management to identify and propose necessary 
recommendations. 
104.2.1.4 Tests. Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the 
provisions of this code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as 
evidence of compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other 
recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official 
shall approve the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party 
acceptable to the code official. 
104.2.2 Alternative materials, design and methods. The provisions of this code are not 
intended to prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of 
construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative has 
been approved. 
5
