Storage of explosives and blasting agents, within the limits of the City, is prohibited.
This restriction shall not prohibit such use where the storage is made by an individual
or company under proper safeguards as may be prescribed by the Fire Chief or his
designee.
15.44.90 Appeals.
Whenever the Fire Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the International Fire Code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the International Fire Code have been
misconstrued orwrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of
the Fire Chief to the Board of Appeals created by Section 109 of the International Fire
Code, by filing with the Fire Chief a written appeal along with a fee as established by
resolution of the City Council and on file in the City Clerk's office, within 30 days from
the date ofthe decision appealed.
15.44.100 Penalty provision.
GJMC 1.04.090 shall apply as though fully set forth in each code and provision
adopted in this chapter.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISION:
All sections of the 2024 IFC not specifically amended by this Ordnance are adopted
as published.
All other resolutions and/or ordinances or portions of an ordinance in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed except as otherwise provided herein.
The adopted ordinance shall be effective as of September 1 ,2025.
PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing on the adoption by reference thereto of the 2024 International Fire
Code with certain amendments was scheduled in the City Council Chambers at
250 N. 5th Street, Grand Junction, Colorado on July 16, 2025, at 5:30 PM. and the
City Clerk published Notice of said public hearing in the manner and style and
pursuant to the schedule of such publication prescribed in 31-16-201 e/. see?.
C.R.S.
At least one copy of the 2024 IFC, as described herein together with certain
amendments thereto certified to be a true copy, shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of Grand Junction, Colorado.
At least one copy of the 2024 IFC including the appendices thereto, together with certain
