Recreational Fire. A wood burning outdoor fire, typically in a homemade enclosure of rocks
or bricks or other materials the fire code official deems safe for the purpose. Recreational fires
are not portable and burn materials other than rubbish or household waste and the wood
being burned is not contained in an incinerator, portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill,
barbeque pit, or permanent outdoor fire pit or fireplace and has a fuel area of 3 feet (914 mm)
or less in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial,
cooking, warmth or similar purpose (i.e. fire pits as defined herein, fire rings or campfires).
Salvage Operation. Any operation to salvage or reclaim any material for use or sale, such as
reprocessing used motor oils, metals, wire, chemicals, shipping containers, or drums, and
specifically including automobile graveyards andjunkyards.
Vegetative IVIaterial. Plant material including bushes, shrubs and clippings from bushes and
shrubs resulting from maintenance of yards or other private or public lands. Nothing larger than
one inch in diameter;
Field stubble, grass (not in piles), weeds in fields, and vegetation along fences,
ditches/ditch banks; and
Wood waste, including chipped tree stumps, tree limbs, bark, small piles of dried leaves (not to
exceed 3 cubic feet) that are well aeriated and do not smolder when burned and scraps resulting
from maintenance or trees. Nothing shall be larger than one inch in diameter and shall not
have been treated with any compound(s) containing chromium, copper, arsenic,
pentachlorophenol, creosote, tar or paint.
Section 203.9.5 Residential Group R-5. Add new Section 203.9.5 to read as follows:
Section 203.9.5 Residential Group R-5. Residential Group R-5 shall include buildings,
structures, or portions thereof for more than five but not more than sixteen persons,
excluding staff, who reside on a 24-hour basis in a supervised residential environment.
This occupancy requires that ail persons residing within shall, without any assistance, be
capable of responding to an emergency situation to complete building evacuation. Such
occupancy shal! comply with the International Residential Code. This group shall include,
but not limited to, the following: Congregate living facilities (non-transient) with 16 or fewer
occupants, for whom supervision is provided on a 24-hour basis within the building,
structure or portion thereof.
Chapter 3
General Requirements
Section 304.1.3. Amend Section 304.1.3 to read and add exception:
Weeds, grass, vines or other growth that is capable of being ignited and endangering property,
shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the premises.
Exceptions: Vegetation located at one- and two-family dwellings, and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses), Nothing in this exception shall preclude laws governed by federal,
state, and the county that implement additional enforcement requirements.
