greater than 700 square feet in size, self-supported without the use of guy wires that
anchor to the earth, permanently attached to a trailer that has a current registration with
the Department of Motor vehicle and is certified by a qualified engineer as deemed
acceptable by the authority having jurisdiction.
Bonfire. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes which is limited to a solid wood
fuel size of 8 feet in diameter and 4 feet high and conducted by non-profit organizations,
religious institutions, school districts, or governments.
Fire Pit (Non-portable, wood burning). A depression dug into the ground and/or an
enclosure made from stones, masonry, etc. for keeping a fire used for cooking or warmth.
Non-portable wood burning fire pits are regulated as recreational fires in accordance with
the International Fire Code.
Household Waste. Any waste including garbage and trash, derived from households
including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, and other places used for
temporary or permanent human habitation.
Nonattainment Area. An area which has been designated under the Clean Air Act as
nonattainmentforone or more of the national ambient air quality standards by the federal
environmental protection agency.
Open burning. Any manner of burning, typically vegetative material, whether caused,
suffered or allowed, not in a device or chamber designed to achieve combustion, where
the products of combustion are emitted, directly or indirectly, into the open air; open burning
does not include the detonation of manufactured explosives. The burning of materials wherein
products of combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. Open burning does not include road flares,
smudge pots and similar devices associated with safety or occupational uses typically
considered open flames, recreational fires, portable outdoor fireplaces, fire pits (non-portable
wood burning), and permanent fire pits and fireplaces. For the purposes of this definition, a
chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion occurs, only
apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide combustion air and permit
the escape of exhaust gas are open. Open burning must be conducted at least 50 feet from
any structure (including combustible fences), occupied dweiling(s), workplace (s), or any other
place(s) where people congregate, which is on property owned by or under possessory
control of, another person.
Permanent Fire Pit or Fireplace. A permanent outdoor, wood burning or gas fire pit or
fireplace is constructed of steel, iron, concrete, day, masonry or other noncombustible
material(s). A permanent outdoor fire pit or fireplace is aboveground and purchased or
constructed in a manner that attaches the component to a deck, patio or ground such that it is
not portable. A permanent outdoor fire pit or fireplace may be open in design or may be
equipped with a chimney and/or a hearth. Permanent outdoor fire pits or fireplaces burning
gas or wood shall not be operated within five feet of a structure or combustible material unless
otherwise approved in accordance with the International Residential Code or International
Building Code.
