standards in addition to those set forth in Zoning and Development Code:
1. No gateways, locked entries or other restrictive access constraints are allowed
across a shared driveway.
2. A shared driveway shall be a minimum sixteen feet (16') wide flow line to flow line and
a maximum of one hundred and fifty feet (150') in length.
3. Parking on a shared driveway is prohibited. No parking signs shall be required as
determined by the fire code official.
4. Each lot abutting a shared driveway must provide four (4) on-site parking spaces.
For homes on shared driveways that access a cul-de-sac, five on-site parking
spaces shall be provided. These additional parking spaces may be provided on
the shared driveway if it is widened to accommodate such parking and is approved
by the fire code official.
5. Each lot abutting a shared driveway must access off the shared driveway unless
approved otherwise at the time of subdivision.
6. A shared driveway may be used only where it intersects a street with on street
parking.
7. Shared driveways are considered fire apparatus roads and shall be developed in
accordance with Chapter 5 and Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D as
determined by the fire code official.
8. Individual driveways located off the shared driveway shall be developed in
accordance with Chapter 5 and Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D when
the residential structure is located in excess of 150 feet from the shared driveway
as determined by the fire code official.
Section 511. Add a new Section 511 Recreational Vehicle, IVlobile Home, and
Manufactured Housing Parks, Sales Lots, and Storage Lots.
Section 511.1. Add a new Section 511.1 to read as follows:
Recreational vehicle, mobile home, and manufactured housing parks, sales lots and storage
lots shall provide and maintain fire hydrants and access roads in accordance with Section 503,
Section 507, Appendix B, Appendix C, Appendix D as amended. At a minimum, all
recreational vehicle locations, mobile homes, manufactured homes, storage facilities and
similar developments shall be located within 400 feet of a fire hydrant. The fire code official
is authorized to reduce the measurement below 400 feet when a distinct hazard has been
identified such as, but not limited to difficult topography, limited access roads, limited water
supply, etc.
