the improper use of the system, such as intentional activating of a false alarm or the
intentional activation of a smoke or heat detector to produce a false alarm. After three (3)
such activations within the same quarter of a calendar year, or more than six (6) during
any calendar year, from the same alarm system, the fee schedule for false alarms shall
become effective.
907.6.6.4.2 Whenever the Fire Chief cannot determine how a false alarm was activated
and three (3) such unexplained alarms occur within a calendar year quarter, or alarm(s)
exceeding six (6) during a calendar year, the fee schedule for false alarms shall become
effective with the fourth and seventh and subsequent alarm(s) respectively.
907.6.6.4.3 A fee, in accordance with the fee schedule established by resolution of the
City Council and on file with the City Clerk, shall be charged for false alarms.
907.6.6.4.4 A new alarm system shall be allowed thirty (30) days to become stabilized
before charges will accrue for false alarms.
Chapter 11
Construction Requirements for Existing Buildings
Section 1103.1 Required construction. Add exception 3:
Exception 3: Sections 1103.3 (Existing elevators), 1103.4 (Vertical openings), 1104
(Means of egress for existing buildings), and 1105 (Construction requirements for
existing Group 1-2) may only be initiated when the Fire Code Official has consulted the
City's Chief Building Official and both representatives believe a significant unsafe and/or
hazardous situation exists to safety that would suggest improvements must be made in
order to preserve or improve the health, safety and welfare of the occupants and/or
emergency responders.
Chapter 31
Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures, and Other Membrane Structures
Section 3103.2. Amend Section 3103.2 to read as follows:
3103.2 Approval Required. Tents and membrane structures having an area in excess
of 2400 square feet shall not be erected, operated or maintained for any purpose without
first obtaining a permit and approval from the fire code official. Emergency egress and
fire safety provisions contained therein apply to all tents and membrane structures
regardless of size and is the responsibility of the owner and/or event coordinator.
Exception 1: Tents used exclusively for recreational camping purposes.
Exception 2: Funeral tents and curtains, or extensions attached thereto, when
used for funeral services.
Exception 3: Temporary membrane structures, temporary special event
