 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
Cash and Professional Cash Bail Bonding  
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
The statute provides regulatory oversight of cash-
bonding 
and 
professional 
cash-bail 
agents 
(collectively referred to as “bail bonding agents”). 
Cash-bonding agents are authorized to write an 
unlimited amount of bail to an unlimited number of 
clients. 
 
Professional 
cash-bail 
agents 
are 
authorized to write bail for not more than twice 
the amount of the qualification bond filed with the 
Division.      
  
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
Regulating 
bail 
bonding 
agents 
serves two 
important functions.  First, it ensures that bail 
bonding agents have fulfilled the minimum 
statutory requirements to practice in Colorado, 
including posting a $50,000 cash qualification bond 
with the Division of Insurance (Division).  The 
purpose of the cash qualification bond is to pay the 
court the amount of bail established in order to be 
released from custody if a defendant fails to attend 
his or her court proceedings.   Regulating bail 
bonding agents also provides protection to 
consumers by limiting the fees bail bonding agents 
can charge.  In fact, the statute prohibits bail 
bonding agents from charging fees of more than 15 
percent (a minimum of $50) of the amount of bail 
furnished.   
 
Who is regulated? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, there were 3 registered cash-
bonding agents and 19 registered professional cash-
bail agents.  
 
 
 
 
How is it regulated? 
 
The statute is enforced by the Commissioner of 
Insurance (Commissioner).  The Commissioner is 
responsible for, among other things, imposing 
discipline on registrants.    
  
 
What does it cost? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the total expenditures for the 
oversight of bail bonding agents were $68,381.  
There were 0.45 full-time equivalent employees 
associated with this regulatory oversight. 
  
 
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
In the past five fiscal years, the Commissioner 
issued five letters of admonition to registrants.  
Generally, bail bonding agents are disciplined for 
failing to comply with existing laws and failing to 
use the cash qualification bond for a forfeiture of 
bail.  
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue the regulation of cash-
bonding and professional cash-
bail agents for 13 years, until 
2039.  
 
 
 
 
