 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of the Profession  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what the 
profession does, where they work, who they serve and any necessary qualifications. 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition.  
 
Bail is the amount of money or property that a defendant must pledge to the court as 
security for their appearance at future court proceedings.2 Bail is determined by the 
court using several factors, such as:3 
 
• The severity of the alleged crime; 
• The defendant’s criminal history; 
• The nature and extent of any ties, such as family or employment, that the 
accused has to the community where they will be prosecuted; 
• The defendant’s ability to pay the given amount; and 
• The likelihood the accused will flee the jurisdiction if released from custody. 
 
Setting bail unreasonably high could unnecessarily restrict a defendant’s freedom when 
the defendant has only been accused of a crime, and it could prevent the accused from 
being able to pursue a living, including supporting their family.4  
 
If, however, the defendant fails to appear in court as scheduled during prosecution, the 
defendant forfeits the bail amount and still faces criminal penalties if convicted of the 
offense(s) charged.5 
 
There are three types of bail bonding professionals: cash-bonding, professional cash-
bail and surety agents.  Cash-bonding and professional cash-bail agents are the focus of 
this sunset review.  Cash-bonding agents are authorized to write an unlimited amount 
 
2 The Bail Project.  Bail vs. Bond:  Is there a difference?  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from 
https://bailproject.org/learn/bail-vs-bond-is-there-a-difference/ 
3 Roth Davies, LLC.  What are the Factors that a Judge Looks at When Determining Bail Amount?  Retrieved August 
31, 2025, from https://www.rothdavies.com/criminal-defense/frequently-asked-questions-about-criminal-
defense/bond/what-are-the-factors-that-a-judge-looks-at-when-determining-bail-amount/ 
4 Mike’s Bail Bonds.  What Happens When Bail is Set too High?  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from 
https://www.mikesctbailbonds.com/what-happens-when-bail-is-set-too-high 
5 H. Micheal Steinberg.  Understanding the Crime of a Violation of Colorado’s Bail Bond Law.  Retrieved August 31, 
2025, from https://www.hmichaelsteinberg.com/faqs/understanding-the-crime-of-a-violation-of-colorados-bail-
bond/ 
