 
 
7 | P a g e 
of bail for an unlimited number of defendants.  The Commissioner of Insurance 
(Commissioner) no longer issues new registrations for cash-bonding agents.   
 
Cash-bonding agents are required to post a minimum of $50,000 cash qualification bond 
with the Division of Insurance (Division).  The Division must be designated as an 
authorized signatory with right of survivorship on financial instruments such as, a bank 
account, certificate of deposit, or security that funds the cash qualification bond.6  The 
purpose of the cash qualification bond is to pay the court the amount of bail established 
in order to be released from custody if a defendant fails to attend their court 
proceedings. 
 
There are only three registered cash-bonding agents registered in Colorado, and this 
type of registration will be eliminated through attrition.   
     
Professional cash-bail agents, on the other hand, are authorized to write bail for not 
more than twice the amount of the qualification bond filed with the Division.  The 
limitation applies to each bond posted.  The minimum amount of the qualification bond 
is also $50,000.7  So, a professional cash-bail agent who has a $50,000 qualification 
bond filed with the Division can only write a bond to a court if the bail is $100,000 or 
less.  However, professional-cash bail agents can write bail for an unlimited number of 
defendants.   
 
In this report, when referring to both cash-bonding and professional cash-bail agents 
they will be collectively referred to as “bail bonding agents.”   
 
Surety bail agents contract with insurance companies to provide bail services, and they 
are included in the sunset review of the Division, which is scheduled to take place in 
2029.  Hence, they are not discussed in this report.   
 
If a person is taken into police custody and arrested, they are “booked” or “processed” 
into jail.  During booking, officers will:8  
 
• Record personal information (including name, date of birth and physical 
characteristics); 
• Record information about the alleged crime committed; 
• Record the defendant’s fingerprints and photograph; 
• Check the criminal background of the defendant; 
• Search the person and confiscate any personal property (e.g., keys and cell 
phones); and 
• Place the person in a police station holding cell or local jail. 
 
 
6 §§ 10-23-105(1) and (3), C.R.S. 
7 § 10-23-105(2), C.R.S. 
8 Find Law.  Bail and Bonds.  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from https://www.findlaw.com/criminal/criminal-
procedure/booking.html 
