 
 
8 | P a g e 
In cases where the court determines that bail is required to ensure that the accused 
appears in court for all of their criminal proceedings, the court will have a bail hearing.9  
This is where the bail amount is established by the court. 
 
Once the bail amount is established, the accused may choose to pay the entire bail 
amount.  For example, if the amount of bail is $1,000, the accused can pay the entire 
amount, plus any applicable fees, to be released from custody.   
 
The accused, however, will oftentimes utilize a bail bonding agent to pay and ensure 
bond to the court.  That is, the bail bonding agent agrees to pay the amount of the 
bond to the court if the defendant fails to appear at court proceedings.10  
 
Bail bonding agents are authorized to charge a premium or commission of up to 15 
percent of the amount of bail furnished to the court, with a minimum of $50.  For 
example, a defendant who has their bail amount established by a court for $10,000, 
enables the bail bonding agent to charge a premium or commission to the defendant of 
up to $1,500.  
 
As Table 2 illustrates, the amount of bail written by bail bonding agents has decreased 
in the past five years.  However, as the numbers suggest, bail bonding agents still write 
a relatively large, in terms of dollars, amount of bail in Colorado.  
 
 
 
Bail bonding agents’ amount of bonds written has continued to decline in the past five 
calendar years.  There are numerous explanations for the decrease, including courts 
offering defendants their release on a personal recognizance bond, which essentially 
enables a defendant to be released from custody without posting a bond with the court.  
If the defendant fails to appear for their required court dates, the defendant, when 
apprehended, is then required to pay the bail amount to the court.   
 
 
 
9 Find Law.  Bail and Bonds.  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from http://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-legal-
help/bail-bonds.html 
10 Find Law.  Bail and Bonds.  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from https://www.findlaw.com/criminal/criminal-legal-
help/bail-bonds.html 
