 
 
9 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
The bail industry has been regulated in Colorado since 1963.  The initial law creating 
the regulation of bail bonding agents required any person who furnished bail in five or 
more criminal cases in counties with a population of more than 50,000 to be licensed.  
 
Importantly, House Bill 13-1236 was enacted by the General Assembly.  House Bill 13-
1236 altered how judges administered bail in Colorado, emphasizing pretrial release for 
defendants on personal recognizance bonds.    
 
Since the inception of regulatory oversight of bail bonding agents, there have been 
many changes implemented.  The COPRRR sunset reviews of the bail industry have 
facilitated many of the changes.  COPRRR has conducted numerous sunset reviews, 
including reviews in 1992, 1995, 2003, 2011 and 2016.  Examples of recommendations 
are highlighted below:  
 
• The 1992 sunset review recommended that the Division should have priority over 
bail bonding agents’ cash qualification bonds.  This recommendation was enacted 
by the General Assembly.   
 
• The 2003 sunset review included a recommendation to require bail bonding 
agents to submit rate filings (the amount bail bonding agents charge consumers) 
annually with the Division.  This recommendation was enacted by the General 
Assembly. 
 
• The 2016 sunset review included a recommendation to authorize the 
Commissioner of Insurance (Commissioner) to release a deed of trust of a bail 
bonding agent who refuses or is unable to release the lien.  This recommendation 
was also enacted by the General Assembly.   
