 
 
10 | P a g e 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth, and fifth sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent; and 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters. 
 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether 
regulation is set at the appropriate level and whether the current laws are impeding or 
enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public interest. 
 
The regulation of cash-bonding agents and professional cash-bail agents, collectively 
referred to as bail bonding agents, is created in section 10-23-101, et seq., C.R.S.  
 
Cash-bail agents are authorized to write an unlimited number of bonds and an unlimited 
amount of bail in Colorado.  However, the statute does not allow for new cash-bail 
agents.  Currently, there are only three cash-bail agents in Colorado, and this type of 
bail bonding agent will be eliminated through attrition. 
 
Although the Division no longer issues cash-bonding agent registrations, practitioners 
who possess this registration are required to post a cash qualification bond with the 
Division of at least $50,000.  The purpose of a cash qualification bond is to secure 
payment of defaulted bonds (if a defendant fails to appear in court) and to pay any 
final, non-appealable judgment for failure to return collateral, including costs and 
attorney’s fees, if awarded.11 
 
The Division must be designated as an authorized signatory with right of survivorship on 
financial instruments such as a bank account, certificate of deposit, or security that 
funds the cash qualification bond.12   
 
Additionally, professional cash-bail agents are also required to post a qualification bond 
with the Division of at least $50,000.  Professional cash-bail agents are authorized to 
provide bail for a person for not more than twice the amount of the cash qualification 
 
11 3 CCR § 7-1-2(2), Cash-Bonding and Professional Cash-Bail Agent Cash Qualification Bond Requirements and 
Provisional for Release of Qualification Bond.  
12 § 10-23-105(3), C.R.S. 
