 
 
11 | P a g e 
bond posted with the Division.13  For example, professional cash-bail agents who post 
a $50,000 cash qualification bond, which is the required minimum, with the Division 
are able to write a bond of up to $100,000 for an individual.  However, the statute does 
not limit the number of bail bonds professional cash-bail agents can furnish. 
 
If default judgment of a bond occurs (the defendant fails to appear in court as 
required), the bail bonding agent has 120 days to either pay the court the entire bond 
amount or produce the defendant.  After 120 days, the bail bonding agent is placed “on 
the board,” which essentially means that they cannot write any bail until the judgment 
is satisfied with the court.  If, after 120 days, the bail bonding agent fails to produce 
either, the court sends a “notice” to the Division informing it that the bail bonding 
agent is out of compliance with the laws.  Upon receiving the notice, the Division may 
initiate the process to utilize the cash qualification bond for payment to the court and 
initiate formal discipline upon the practitioner.    
 
Prior to writing bail, professional cash-bail agents are required to obtain a registration 
from the Division.  In order to qualify for a bail bonding agent registration, an applicant 
must:14 
 
• Disclose whether they have been convicted of a felony, entered a guilty plea to 
a felony, had accepted a plea of nolo contendere to a felony or engaged in or 
committed an act that violates the statute within the previous 10 years; 
• Supply a full-face photograph; 
• Submit to a fingerprint-based criminal history background check; and 
• Have been licensed as an insurance producer who furnishes bail in Colorado for 
at least four years. 
 
Bail bonding agents are also required to provide an annual Premium Fee Statement to 
the Division.   
 
Bail bonding agents may provide an indemnity agreement to consumers who utilize their 
services.   
 
The indemnity agreement must be in writing, signed by the bail bond agent and 
defendant, and contain documentation that the indemnitor received copies of the 
signed and dated disclosure.15  Additional information includes:16 
 
• The amount of bail set in the case, 
• The name of the defendant, 
• The court case number (if available), 
• The court where the bond is executed, 
 
13 § 10-23-105(2), C.R.S. 
14 §§ 10-23-103(1)(a),(b), (2) and (3), C.R.S. 
15 § 10-23-108(1)(a), C.R.S. 
16 § 10-23-108(1)(a)(IV), C.R.S. 
