 
 
14 | P a g e 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth and sixth sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The regulation of cash-bonding agents and professional cash-bail agents (collectively 
referred to as bail bonding agents) is created in section 10-23-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
 
Regulatory oversight for bail bonding agents is vested with the Commissioner of 
Insurance (Commissioner) who is responsible for, among other things, rulemaking and 
imposing discipline on practitioners for violations of the statute and applicable rules.   
 
The Division of Insurance (Division) staff is tasked with a variety of administrative 
functions related to the regulation of bail bonding agents.  Duties include, but are not 
limited to issuing registrations, researching complaints and providing support for the 
Commissioner.  
 
In fiscal year 24-25, the Commissioner devoted 0.45 full-time equivalent (FTE) 
employees to provide regulatory oversight of bail bonding agents.  The FTE allocated 
for the oversight are as follows: 
 
• Administrative Assistant III – provides administrative support to the producer 
licensing and enforcement team.  
• Administrator III – processes registration information for the bail bonding 
program.  
• Criminal Investigator II – reviews complaints and conducts investigations, 
conducts qualification bond audits, provides outreach and responds for general 
inquiries related to the bail bonding program. 
• Rate/Financial Analyst IV – manages producers’ registration and enforcement 
unit operations related to bail bonding agents.  
 
