 
 
19 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendation that follows is offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in this recommendation. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the regulation of cash-bonding and 
professional cash-bail agents for 13 years, until 2039.  
 
When a person is arrested for a crime, the court may set a specific amount of bail for 
the defendant to satisfy in order to obtain their release from custody. Courts often 
allow defendants to be released from custody on a personal recognizance bond, which 
essentially enables a defendant to be released from custody without posting a bond 
with the court.  If the defendant fails to appear for their required court dates, the 
defendant, when apprehended, is then required to pay the bail amount to the court.   
 
Specifically, in cases where the court determines that bail is required to ensure that 
the accused appears in court for all of their criminal proceedings, the court will have a 
bail hearing.20 The bail amount is established by the court during a bail hearing. 
 
Bail is the amount of money or property that a defendant must pledge to the court as 
security for their appearance at court proceedings.21   
 
There are three types of bail bonding professionals who are regulated in Colorado:  
cash-bonding, professional cash-bail and surety agents.  This sunset review focuses on 
cash-bonding and professional cash-bail agents only (collectively referred to as “bail 
bonding agents”). 
 
Since surety bail agents are connected to insurance companies and are required to 
possess an insurance producer’s license prior to providing bail, they are included in the 
sunset review of the Division of Insurance (Division).  
 
Bail bonding agents are required to secure a registration from the Commissioner of 
Insurance (Commissioner) prior to providing services.  Cash-bonding agents are 
authorized to write an unlimited amount of bail to an unlimited number of clients.  
However, in 1999, via House Bill 1329, the General Assembly instituted a new bail bond 
agent classification:  professional cash-bail agent.  As a result, new cash-bonding agent 
registrations are not available.  Current registrants are permitted to practice in 
Colorado and the registration classification will be eliminated through attrition.   
 
 
20 Find Law.  Bail and Bonds.  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from http://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-legal-
help/bail-bonds.html 
21 The Bail Project.  Bail vs. Bond:  Is there a difference?  Retrieved August 31, 2025, from 
https://bailproject.org/learn/bail-vs-bond-is-there-a-difference/ 
