 
 
20 | P a g e 
Securing a registration from the Commissioner serves several important functions.  
First, it ensures that bail bonding agents have fulfilled the minimum statutory 
requirements to practice in Colorado.  This provides assurance to the court that if a 
defendant fails to appear for their court proceedings, it will receive compensation in 
the amount of the forfeited bail amount. 
 
Regulation also provides protection to consumers by limiting the fees bail bonding 
agents can charge.  In fact, the statute prohibits bail bonding agents from charging fees 
of more than 15 percent (a minimum of $50) of the amount of bail furnished.  Bail 
bonding agents are also authorized to charge bail bond fees charged by a court or law 
enforcement action and fees for the actual cost of storing collateral in a secure, self-
service public storage facility.  The limitation ensures that bail bonding agents are not 
charging exorbitant fees, which could prevent defendants from obtaining bail.  
 
At times, defendants are not financially able to pay the fee bail bonding agents charge 
to post bond.  If this situation occurs, defendants and/or indemnitors can use collateral 
including real property as a means to utilize the services of bail bonding agents to cover 
the premium, commission or fee for the bail bond, compliance with the bond and any 
actual costs incurred as a result of the issuance of the bond.  For example, a bail 
bonding agent may submit a deed of trust to the county where real property is located.  
The deed of trust is a lien on the property, and once the monies due are paid to the 
bail bonding agent and the court, if necessary, by the defendant, the bail bonding agent 
removes the deed of trust from the property. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public.  
The regulation of bail bonding agents protects consumers related to the release of 
collateral.  The statute requires the return of collateral within 14 days after receipt of 
a copy of the court order releasing the bond and requires the release of a deed of trust 
within 35 days after receiving notice of the conclusion of all court proceedings.       
 
Additionally, the registration program enables the Commissioner to impose discipline 
on bail bonding agents for violations of the statute or applicable rules.  Information 
gathered during the course of this sunset review indicates that the Commissioner has 
imposed limited disciplinary actions on bail bonding agents.  However, formal discipline 
was ultimately imposed, and doing so provides a mechanism to enhance consumer 
protection.   
 
Bail bonding agents’ amount of bonds written has continued to decline in the past five 
calendar years.  There are numerous explanations for the decrease, including courts 
increasingly offering defendants their release on a personal recognizance bond, as 
opposed to bail.     
 
However, as Table 2 in this report indicates, in calendar year 2024, bail bonding agents 
wrote more than $38 million in bail.  This represents a large amount of bail, in real 
dollars, in Colorado.   
 
