CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-34 
a. 
A Recreational Vehicle (RV) or a temporary shelter may be occupied for recreational or vacation 
purposes on property located within a Rural or Urban Residential zoning district. 
(1) 
For properties less than one (1) acre in size, a principal dwelling is required on the property. 
(2) 
Occupancy of RVs or temporary shelters shall not be permitted on properties less than one 
half (1/2) acre in size. 
(3) 
RVs and temporary shelters shall be prohibited in the required setbacks. 
b. 
Occupancy of RVs and temporary shelters in Nonresidential and Mixed Use zoning districts shall 
be limited to permitted campgrounds and camps.  
c. 
Occupancy of RVs in Mobile Home Parks and Manufactured Home Parks shall not be permitted. 
d. 
Private non-commercial hunting camps in Rural zoning districts are exempt from these standards. 
e. 
These standards shall not apply to Agricultural Labor Housing approved pursuant to Section 6.02 
B. of this LDC. 
2. 
Number Allowed 
One (1) RV or temporary shelter may be occupied on a single property at a time. 
3. 
Duration of Occupancy 
RVs or temporary shelters may be occupied for a period not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days. 
RVs or temporary shelters shall not be occupied more than a total of one hundred eighty (180) days 
in any calendar year.  
4. 
Standards 
The following standards apply to the occupancy of all RVs and temporary shelters located in a Rural 
or Urban Residential zoning district:  
a. 
RVs must have a current registration and/or vehicle license. 
b. 
To protect public safety, all RVs & temporary shelters must remain readily mobile and meet the 
following requirements.  
(1) 
Nothing shall be attached to an RV or temporary shelter or placed in a manner that would 
prevent or hinder the immediate removal of the RV or temporary shelter. 
(2) 
RVs and temporary shelters, inclusive of all slide-outs and other projections, shall maintain a 
separation of at least ten (10) feet from all buildings.  
(3) 
RVs shall not be driven or be parked across, over, or on any part of the onsite waste water 
treatment system. 
(4) 
The RV or temporary shelter’s hook-ups must be in compliance with all applicable building, 
fire, electrical, mechanical, and related codes. 
(5) 
Propane tanks must meet minimum fire code standards, including placement at least ten 
(10) feet from any source of ignition (open flame, window air conditioner, compressor, 
generator, or similar items). 
(6) 
No generator shall be located within fifty (50) feet of a dwelling on an adjoining property.  
(7) 
Generators shall not be used between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Generators shall be located 
so noise is not directed toward adjoining properties. Generators shall adhere to the noise 
limit requirements of Colorado Revised Statute §25-12-103. 
(8) 
The placement of RVs or temporary structures in a floodplain shall meet the standards of 
Section 8.14 of this LDC.  
c. 
RVs or temporary structures property may not be leased or rented to another party for use on 
that property except as may be permitted by this LDC.  
5. 
Temporary Dwelling 
