CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
9-1 
CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS 
SECTION 9.01 | PURPOSE 
The sign regulations of this chapter are intended to promote traffic safety and to protect the visual appearance of 
the County. Signs placed by a governmental entity or approved to be located on public property or in public rights-
of-way are exempt from this Chapter. 
SECTION 9.02 | PROHIBITED SIGNS 
A. 
The following signs shall be prohibited: 
1. 
Signs that contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene or indecent nature.  
2. 
Signs that contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signal or contain the words “stop,” 
“go slow,” “caution,” “danger,” “warning,” or similar words; 
3. 
Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of illumination which may 
be confused with or construed as a traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street 
sign or signal; 
4. 
Signs that create a hazard for, or impede safe or efficient movement of, motorists or pedestrians; 
5. 
Signs that contain or consist of portable signs, tent signs and strings of light bulbs not permanently 
mounted on a rigid background; 
6. 
Signs that swing or otherwise move as a result of wind pressure because of the manner of their 
suspension or attachment; or 
7. 
Signs placed on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge, tree or other surface located on public 
property including the posting of handbills, except as may otherwise expressly be authorized by this 
section. 
SECTION 9.03 | EXEMPT SIGNS  
A. 
Signs That Do Not Require a Permit 
The following signs are allowed on a lot/parcel in any zone district: 
1. 
One sign that is integral to or flush-mounted on a building or structure that is no greater than four (4) 
square feet in area. 
2. 
Signs that cannot be read from street rights-of-way which inform or instruct customers or visitors on-site. 
This may include but is not limited to menu boards, directional signs, rear entrance signs and warning 
signs. 
3. 
Temporary decorations or displays clearly incidental, customary and commonly associated with 
national or local holiday celebrations. 
4. 
A sign that is not illuminated, not digital or electronic and not permanent in nature; for example, one 
that is planted into the ground or affixed to an object or structure by temporary means, does not have 
a foundation, is made of lightweight and thin materials such as a single sheet of plastic, thin metal, 
plywood or paper, with the following limitation:  
a. 
On a parcel of less than one (1) acre, up to six (6) such signs are allowed, so long as each sign is 
not greater than six (6) square feet in area, except in that one of these signs may be up to thirty-
two (32) square feet in area when construction is occurring on a parcel or a subdivision of land is 
being developed. 
b. 
On a parcel of one (1) acre or larger, up to six (6) such signs per acre are allowed, so long as 
each sign is not greater than six square feet in area, except that one sign per acre can be up to 
thirty-two (32) square feet in area. 
