CHAPTER 1 | INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
1-1 
CHAPTER 1 | INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS 
SECTION 1.01 | TITLE 
This Resolution shall be officially known and cited as the “Mesa County Land Development Code,” although it is 
referred to throughout this Resolution as the “Land Development Code” or “LDC.” 
SECTION 1.02 | AUTHORITY 
This Land Development Code is adopted pursuant to the powers and authority conferred by the laws of the State 
of Colorado, including, but not limited to, the following Sections of C.R.S.: Article 28 of Title 30 (County Planning, 
Zoning, Subdivision); Article 65.1 of Title 24 (Areas of State Interest); Article 67 of Title 24 (Planned Unit Development); 
Article 68 of Title 24 (Vested Rights); Article 20 of Title 29 (Local Government and Land Use Control Enabling Act); 
and Articles 11 and 28 of Title 30. 
SECTION 1.03 | APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION 
The provisions of this Land Development Code apply to all development including but not limited to; buildings, 
structures, improvements, and uses of land throughout unincorporated Mesa County, to the extent allowed by law. 
It does not apply to land within the territorial limits of any incorporated municipality. 
SECTION 1.04 | REPEALS AND ENACTMENT 
A. 
All resolutions, or portions thereof, of the Mesa County Board of County Commissioners, relating to zoning, 
subdivisions, and/or land use inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency. 
B. 
The repeal of any resolution, regulation, or ordinance does not revive any other resolution, regulation or 
ordinance or portions thereof repealed by said resolution, regulation, or ordinance. 
C. 
Such repeals shall not affect or prevent the prosecution or punishment of any person for the violation of 
any resolution hereby, for an offense committed prior to the repeal. 
SECTION 1.05 | PURPOSE  
This Land Development Code is adopted for the purpose of preserving and improving the public health, safety, and 
general welfare of the citizens and businesses of Mesa County. More specifically, it is the purpose of this Land 
Development Code to: 
A. 
Implement the purposes, goals, and policies of the Mesa County Master Plan; 
B. 
Promote timely, predictable, consistent, and efficient land development processes for residents, 
neighborhoods, businesses, and agricultural and development interests; 
C. 
Provide appropriate opportunities for participation and involvement in the development process by all 
affected parties; 
D. 
Promote development that is consistent and compatible with that of the municipalities within Mesa County 
within the joint municipal planning areas; and 
E. 
Be fair to all by giving due consideration to protecting private property rights, the rights of individuals, and 
the interests of the community as a whole. In instances where an application to develop does not meet all 
applicable criteria of this LDC, and unique or special circumstances exist which would warrant the approval 
of the application to develop, and provided the proposed development: (a) poses no threat to health or 
safety; (b) provides for the mitigation of impacts to the maximum extent reasonable; and (c) is generally 
consistent and compatible with the allowed uses in the applicable Zoning District, the application to 
develop may be approved. 
SECTION 1.06 | RIGHT TO FARM AND RANCH POLICY 
In addition to the purposes set out in Section 1.05, Mesa County has established, by resolution, a “Right to Farm and 
Ranch” policy which is summarized in this section. (See also Section 11.06 C.)  
A. 
Any agricultural operation or practice that is historical, traditional, legitimate, and reasonable shall be 
