CHAPTER 7 | MEASUREMENT AND DENSITY STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
7-6 
bonus must apply the following approval criteria in Section 7.02 C.3. 
3. 
Approval Criteria 
a. 
The following preserved land minimums shall be required to achieve associated density bonuses: 
TABLE 7-2: RESERVED LAND REQUIRED 
Future Land Use Classification 
Density (acres per 
dwelling unit) 
Reserved Land 
Requirement 
R/A 17 
15 
30% 
12 
40% 
9 
50% 
R/A 10 
8.5 
30% 
6.5 
40% 
5 
50% 
b. 
The lots must be located to avoid development of and minimize adverse impacts on agricultural 
land, steep slopes, ridgelines, wetlands, wildlife habitats, and public facilities; 
c. 
The reserved land may be located within a tract designated as open space (in which case the 
tract is not included in the density calculation) as a building lot (in which case the reserved 
building lot is included in the density calculation);  
d. 
The reserved land should be located in areas adjacent to any existing agricultural operations;  
e. 
A note shall be placed on the plat that the preserved land is reserved for future development 
until applicable revision or amendment of the Mesa County Master Plan and Land Development 
Code occur; and 
f. 
Minimum lot size requirements shall be based on onsite wastewater treatment system regulations, 
fire protection standards, site-specific conditions, and the need, if any, to protect adjacent 
agricultural operations under the County's Right to Farm and Ranch Policy.  
SECTION 7.03 | RSF-E DISTRICT DENSITY  
A. 
Purpose  
In order to provide more certainty regarding appropriate levels of development on land with a Future Land 
Use Classification of Estate, the County has adopted the provisions of this section to govern density in the 
RSF-E Zoning District . 
B. 
Maximum Density and Minimum Lot Size Criteria  
The maximum density and minimum lot size allowed within the RSF-E Zoning District shall be as follows:  
TABLE 7-3: ESTATE FUTURE LAND USE CLASSIFICATION SUMMARY 
Future Land Use Classification 
Density 
Minimum Lot Size 
Estate 
1 acre / dwelling unit 
1 acre 
Estate 2 
2 acres / dwelling unit 
2 acres 
Rural Estate 3 
3 acres / dwelling unit 
1 acre 
 
SECTION 7.04 | ALTERNATIVE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS 
The alternative development options of this section allow for variety in development standards while maintaining 
the overall character of single-family residential developments. 
A. 
Flagpole Lots  
Flagpole lots shall be allowed in all Rural and Urban Residential zoning districts in accordance with the 
