CHAPTER 3 | GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
3-4 
TABLE 3-3: NOTICE RADIUS 
Application Property Location 
Required Notice Radius 
Within an Urban Zoning District 
500 feet of subject property 
Within one of the six (6) Rural Communities 
500 feet of subject property 
Within a Rural Zoning District and NOT within 
one of the six (6) Rural Communities 
2,500 feet of subject property 
Public right-of-way within a Rural Zoning District 
(for right-of-way vacations) 
1 mile of the subject right-of-way 
Public right-of-way within an Urban Zoning 
District or one of the six (6) Rural Communities 
(for right-of-way vacations) 
500 feet of the subject right-of-way 
b. 
Ownership information shall be based on the records of the Mesa County Assessor's Office. Notice 
shall also be mailed to Registered Neighborhood Associations whose boundaries lie within 
required notification areas and to registered recreational and trail user groups.  
2. 
Posted Notice  
a. 
When the provisions of this LDC require that notice be posted on the subject property, the 
applicant shall: (1) post the notice using signs that have been provided by the County; and (2) 
place the signs on the property that is the subject of the application. Signs shall be placed along 
each abutting street in a manner that makes them clearly visible to neighboring residents and 
passers-by.  
b. 
Posted notice for rights-of-way vacations will be placed at each end of the rights-of-way section 
proposed for vacation. If the subject rights-of-way proposed for vacation is not County 
maintained or is maintained seasonally, posted notice containing the name of the subject rights-
of-way will also be placed along and perpendicular to the nearest public road or roads as 
determined by the Director.  
c. 
All signs must be posted until a decision has been rendered. Applicants shall be responsible for 
maintaining the signs and removing them within one (1) week after the final decision. 
3. 
Published Notice  
a. 
When the provisions of this Land Development Code require that notice be published, the County 
shall be responsible for preparing the content of the notice, and shall ensure that notice is 
published in the newspaper that has been selected by the County.  
b. 
Rights-of-way vacations will be advertised in the “A” section of the newspaper at the applicant’s 
expense. The advertisement shall be a minimum size of two (2) inches by three (3) inches. 
4. 
Constructive Notice 
Minor defects in a notice shall not impair the notice or invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice 
if a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with applicable notice requirements. Failure of a 
party to receive written notice shall not invalidate any subsequent action. In all cases, however, the 
requirements for the timing of the notice and for specifying the time, date and place of a hearing and 
the location of the subject property shall be strictly construed. If questions arise at the hearing 
regarding the adequacy of notice, the decision-making body shall make a formal finding regarding 
whether there was substantial compliance with the notice requirements of this LDC before proceeding 
with the hearing. 
E. 
Community Development Director/Stormwater Administrator Action 
1. 
Applications Subject to Community Development Director or Stormwater Administrator Decision 
If an application is subject to final decision by the Director or the Stormwater Administrator per Table 
3-1, the Director or the Stormwater Administrator shall make a decision based on the review standards 
applicable to the application type. The decision shall be in writing, accompanied by written findings 
of fact and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been approved, approved with 
