CHAPTER 11 | VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
11-1 
CHAPTER 11 | VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT 
SECTION 11.01 | RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT 
The Director shall be responsible for enforcing this Land Development Code, unless otherwise specifically stated. 
SECTION 11.02 | TYPES OF VIOLATIONS 
Any of the following shall be a violation of this LDC and shall be subject to the remedies and penalties provided for 
in this LDC: 
A. 
Use, Structure or Sign Without Permit or Approval  
To place any use, structure, improvement, or sign upon land that is subject to this LDC without all of the 
approvals required by this LDC; 
B. 
Activities Inconsistent with Land Development Code  
To erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, maintain, move, or use any building, structure, 
improvement, or sign, or to engage in development or subdivision of any land in contravention of any 
zoning, subdivision, sign or other regulation of this LDC; 
C. 
Activities Without Permit or Approval  
To engage in any subdividing, development, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature upon 
land that is subject to this LDC, without all of the approvals required by this LDC; 
D. 
Activities Inconsistent with Permit  
To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity of any nature in any way 
inconsistent with the terms and conditions of any permit, approval, certificate or other form of authorization 
required in order to engage in such activity; 
E. 
Activities Inconsistent with Conditions  
To violate, by act or omission, any term, condition, or qualification placed by a Decision Making Body upon 
any permit or other form of authorization; 
F. 
Making Lots or Setbacks Nonconforming  
To reduce or diminish any lot area so that the setbacks or open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed by 
this LDC; 
G. 
Increasing Intensity of Use  
To increase the intensity of use of any land, improvement, or structure, except in accordance with the 
procedural requirements and substantive standards of this LDC; 
H. 
Removing or Defacing Required Notice  
To remove, deface, obscure or otherwise interfere with any notice required by this LDC;  
I. 
Failure to Remove Signs or Other Improvements  
To fail to remove any sign or other improvement installed, created, erected or maintained in violation of 
this LDC, or for which the permit has lapsed. 
J. 
Violation of National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Standards  
To fail to be fully compliant with Section 8.14, Floodplain Regulations, within this LDC.  A structure or other 
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance 
required in 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is in violation of this LDC. 
SECTION 11.03 | CONTINUING VIOLATIONS 
Each day that a violation remains uncorrected after receiving notice of the violation from the County shall 
constitute a separate violation of this LDC. 
