CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-38 
(5) 
Outdoor storage areas for junk must be maintained in such a manner that they do not 
constitute a health, safety or fire hazard. 
(6) 
Screened items shall not project above the fence or wall used to screen the materials, 
except for items that are resting on the ground but have a height more than six (6) feet tall 
but less than twelve (12) feet tall. 
b. 
Active agricultural operations may have scrap iron "bone yards", lumber stock piles, or other 
essential collections in ordinary view if necessary for operations and stockpiled in a maintained 
and orderly fashion. 
c. 
The keeping or storage of used or waste tires is subject to the requirements of Section 6.02 M. of 
this LDC.  No more than fifty (50) used or waste tires may be kept on a property in any Rural zoning 
district (unless accessory to a silage pit or hay storage).  No more than ten (10) used or waste tires 
may be kept on a property in any Urban Residential zoning district. 
d. 
All automotive waste, petroleum waste, other regulated fluid, gas or liquid, or contaminants shall 
be controlled and properly contained and shall not be permitted to seep or leak into the soil.  
D. 
Rubbish, Trash, Garbage and Debris 
It is unlawful to deposit, accumulate, store, keep, abandon, or to permit the accumulation, storage, 
keeping or abandonment of rubbish, trash, garbage or debris on private property within unincorporated 
Mesa County, unless such area is approved specifically for that use and appropriately zoned for such 
deposit, accumulation, storage or keeping of rubbish or debris. 
1. 
Any person having the ownership, occupancy, control or management of any property shall keep 
rubbish, trash, garbage and debris in tightly closed containers or within enclosed structures.  Garbage 
and refuse shall be stored in a manner that will prevent entry by animals and vermin and thereby 
avoid the dispersal of such garbage and refuse by animals, wind, or any other means.  
a. 
The use of a manufactured or mobile home, recreational vehicle, or other vehicle for storage of 
rubbish, trash, garbage or debris is prohibited.   
2. 
Any person having the ownership, occupancy, control or management of any property shall remove 
from the property or caused to be removed accumulated rubbish, trash, garbage and debris to an 
approved disposal site on a regular basis (at least once per calendar month) so as to prevent a fire 
hazard or to mitigate public health and safety concerns. 
E. 
Cargo and Shipping Containers 
It shall be permissible to use cargo or shipping containers as principle or accessory buildings, provided site 
plan approval has been granted and all applicable standards of this LDC are met. Additionally, the 
container shall comply with all applicable code requirements for the intended occupancy or use. 
1. 
There shall be no signage, business or trade name on the container(s) unless a sign permit has been 
obtained pursuant to Chapter 9 of this LDC. 
2. 
Storage containers temporarily placed on construction sites to be used for storage of materials and 
equipment related to work on the site or on adjacent lots shall not be subject to the requirements of 
this Section. 
3. 
The display and sale of cargo and shipping containers as a commercial activity on a property that is 
permitted pursuant to this LDC is not subject to the requirements of this Section. 
4. 
Portable moving containers/moving pods placed on private property for no more than ninety (90) 
days in a calendar year shall not be subject to the requirements of this section.  Such containers are 
intended to be used for temporary short-term storage during construction or renovation of a structure, 
and are not intended to be used as long-term on-site storage. 
F. 
Manufactured and Mobile Homes 
1. 
Uninhabitable mobile homes and manufactured homes and those that have been removed from 
their foundation or pad and have not been occupied for a continuous period of one (1) year shall be 
considered junk and shall be subject to the requirements of this Section.   
