CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-7 
movements into or out of parking spaces. 
c. 
Stacking spaces may require separation from other internal driveways and pedestrian circulation 
areas by raised medians, as deemed necessary by the Director for traffic movement or safety. 
 
Figure 8-2: Stacking Spaces 
H. 
Alternative Parking Plans  
An Alternative Parking Plan represents a specific proposal to meet vehicle parking needs by means other 
than providing parking spaces on-site in accordance with Section 8.01 B.  
1. 
Procedures 
An Alternative Parking Plan shall be submitted using the site plan approval process and shall be 
reviewed using the Eligible Alternatives and Approval Criteria of this Section.  
2. 
Enforcement 
In the event that the Alternative Parking arrangement is not adequately serving the parking and 
access needs of the subject property, the County shall make a determination of inadequate service 
and the alternative parking plan shall be revoked and the use shall provide off-street parking spaces 
in accordance with Section 8.01 B. 
3. 
Eligible Alternatives and Approval Criteria 
Using the following alternatives and approval criteria, the applicant shall demonstrate that the 
proposed plan will protect surrounding neighborhoods, maintain existing traffic circulation patterns 
and promote quality design that strict compliance with otherwise applicable off-street parking 
standards would yield. 
a. 
Bicycle Parking 
The number of required off-street parking spaces may be reduced for uses that provide bicycle 
parking and make special provisions to accommodate bicyclists. Examples of accommodations 
include bicycle lockers, employee shower facilities and dressing areas for employees. 
b. 
Valet Parking 
Valet parking may be used to satisfying otherwise applicable off-street parking standards, 
provided that the following conditions are met: 
(1) 
An automobile shall be retrievable from its parking space with the movement of a maximum 
of two (2) additional vehicles; and 
