CHAPTER 11 | VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
11-2 
SECTION 11.04 | REMEDIES AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS 
The County shall have the following remedies and enforcement powers: 
A. 
Withhold Permits  
The County may deny or withhold all permits, certificates or other forms of authorization on any land or 
structure or improvements thereon upon which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of this LDC, 
or of a condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, approval or other authorization previously granted 
by the County, until the violation is corrected. This enforcement provision shall apply regardless of whether 
the current owner or applicant is responsible for the violation in question. 
The County may deny or withhold all permits, certificates or other forms of authorization on any land or 
structure or improvements owned or being developed by a person who owns, developed or otherwise 
caused an uncorrected violation of this LDC, until the violation is corrected. This provision shall apply 
regardless of whether the property for which the permit or other approval is sought is the property in 
violation. 
B. 
Permits Approved with Conditions  
Instead of withholding or denying a permit or other authorization (as described in Section 11.04 A.), the 
County may grant such authorization subject to the condition that the violation be corrected.  
C. 
Revoke Permits  
Any development permit or other form of authorization required under this LDC may be revoked when the 
Director determines:  
1. 
That there is departure from the plans, specifications, or conditions as required under terms of the 
permit; 
2. 
That the development permit was procured by false representation or was issued by mistake; or  
3. 
That any of the provisions of this LDC are being violated. Written notice of such revocation shall be 
served upon the owner, the owner’s agent or contractor, or upon any person employed on the 
building or structure for which such permit was issued, or shall be posted in a prominent location; and, 
thereafter, no such construction shall proceed.  
D. 
Stop Work  
With or without revoking permits, the County may stop work on any building or structure on any land on 
which there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of this LDC or of a permit or other form of authorization 
issued hereunder, in accordance with its power to stop work under its building codes. 
E. 
Revoke Plan or Other Approval  
Where a violation of this LDC involves a failure to comply with approved plans or conditions to which the 
approval of such plans was made subject, the Board of County Commissioners may, upon notice to the 
applicant and other known parties in interest (including any holders of building permits affected), and after 
a public hearing, revoke the plan or other approval or condition its continuance on (1) strict compliance 
with this LDC; (2) the provision of security to ensure that construction is completed in compliance with 
approved plans, or (3) such other conditions as the Board of County Commissioners may reasonably 
impose. 
F. 
Injunctive Relief  
The County may seek an injunction or other equitable relief in court to stop any violation of this LDC, or of 
a permit, certificate or other form of authorization granted hereunder and may recover costs of any such 
action. 
G. 
Abatement or Removal of Unapproved Activity 
The County, pursuant to Section 30-28-124 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, may institute an injunction, 
mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove 
such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or use and to otherwise restore the premises 
