CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-40 
includes within it land that is necessary for implementing an adopted park, bikeway, or open space 
plan, provided that every land dedication shall be roughly proportional both in nature and extent of 
the proposed development. 
2. 
Fees In-Lieu of Land Dedications 
A fee in lieu of park land dedication shall be paid by all developments except those required to 
dedicate park land in accordance with this Section. Revenues from such fees shall be used only to 
acquire park land or construct park or recreation related capital improvements that are necessary to 
serve the fee-paying development and other developments within the area. Fees are payable upon 
the filing of a final plat for a platted residential development. Developments containing residential 
and other uses shall pay the appropriate fees on each part of the development. 
3. 
Required Fees 
The required fees for all types of development shall be calculated in an amount roughly proportional 
to the need or demand generated by the proposed development, as determined by one or more 
studies commissioned and approved by the Board of County Commissioners. 
4. 
Credit Permitted Against Fee 
The development shall be allowed credit against any fees due for the actual costs of any park related 
capital improvements constructed by the applicant, for the development, at the request of Mesa 
County that are not on or directly adjacent to land owned by the applicant. 
B. 
Schools  
1. 
Land Dedications 
Dedication of Suitable School Lands for school purposes shall be required of any development if the 
affected School District determines that such development includes within it land that is necessary for 
implementing a school plan, provided that every land dedication shall be roughly proportional both 
in nature and extent of the proposed development, in accordance with the requirements of this 
Section. 
2. 
Fees In-Lieu of Land Dedications 
A fee in-lieu of school land dedication shall be paid by all residential developments except those 
required to dedicate land for schools in accordance with this Section. The fee per dwelling unit shall 
be determined by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, calculated in an amount roughly 
proportional to the need or demand generated by the proposed development, as determined by 
one or more studies commissioned and approved by the School District. School Land Dedication (SLD) 
fees shall be collected by the County for the exclusive use and benefit of the School District in which 
such development is located, and shall be expended by the School District solely to acquire real 
property or interests in real property reasonably needed for development or expansion of school sites 
and facilities, or to reimburse the School District for sums expended to acquire such property or 
interests.  
a. 
School Land Dedication Fees shall be collected and held in trust for the use and benefit of the 
School District containing the Residential Development for which the fee is collected. Such fees 
shall be expended by such School District to acquire additional real property for expansion of 
school facilities and construction of new school facilities necessitated by new Residential 
Development in such School District, or to reimburse the School District for sums expended to 
acquire such property. The amount of the SLD Fee shall be based on a methodology which takes 
into account the student generation rates of new Residential Development, the quantity of land 
required to build new school facilities on a per pupil basis, and the anticipated cost of acquiring 
Suitable School Lands in the School District to expand existing school facilities and construct new 
school facilities to accommodate new Residential Development without decreasing current 
levels of educational services. 
b. 
At the time SLD Fees are initially adopted and once every five years thereafter, the Board of 
County Commissioners shall determine the average cost per acre of Suitable School Lands, after 
a public hearing. The County shall give each School District of the County sixty (60) days’ prior 
written notice of the hearing. Such hearing shall consider the School Districts’ long range capital 
