CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-38 
1. 
Required Improvements 
a. 
Streets/Roads 
If a development is adjacent to a local street or road (as defined in the Road Access Policy) and 
if the street/road provides primary access, the developer shall be responsible for all improvement 
costs (see 2. below). 
b. 
Primary Access Street/Road 
When a development is not adjacent to a street/road and a Primary Access Street/Road is 
required to access the development, the developer shall be responsible for the entire cost of the 
design and construction of said Primary Access Street/Road. 
c. 
Internal Streets/Roads 
The developer shall be responsible for the entire cost of the design and construction of internal 
streets/roads and connection stubs. In the rural zoning districts, the Developer may have their 
engineer prepare a specific proposal for reduced improvements when constraints (e.g. the need 
exists for additional rights-of-way from an adjoining property or when a responsibility to share road 
construction costs with an adjoining property exists) are identified. When six (6) or fewer residential 
lots will use the internal road for access, the improvements required in the rights-of-way may be 
reduced, upon request by the Developer, to the minimum standard for shared driveways as 
specified in Section 8.16 E. 
2. 
Urban Street Improvements 
Development within all Urban Zoning Districts and Rural Communities, shall construct required 
improvements (Section 8.17 B.) to streets/roads that are in conformance with the urban road sections 
in the Mesa County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction. 
3. 
Rural Road Improvements 
a. 
Development located in the Rural Zoning Districts shall construct limited improvements (Section 
8.17 B.) to County maintained roads when the development: 
(1) 
Has boundaries with frontage on a “public road” as defined in the Road Access Policy; and  
(2) 
Has adjacent roads that are designated as local roads as defined in the Road Access Policy. 
b. 
Development that satisfies the criteria in Section 8.17 B. shall provide the following road 
improvements to adjacent County roads classified as local roads: 
(1) 
Install all or portions of gravel shoulder along adjacent roads in compliance with the Mesa 
County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction; and  
(2) 
Ensure that drainage along roads is not adversely affected by any road improvements 
installed or accesses constructed. 
SECTION 8.18 | CIRCULATION AND STREET LAYOUT 
A. 
Sidewalks and Trails  
All principal structures in Nonresidential zoning districts, and all Urban Residential zoning districts except the 
URR, RSF-R and RSF-E district shall have direct access to a sidewalk or trail without having to cross a street.  
B. 
Transportation Plans  
The layout of streets, highways, sidewalks and trails shall comply with all adopted transportation plans. 
Where proposed development adjoins other property, the dedicated rights-of-way and improvements 
required to connect Local, Arterial or Collector streets within the proposed development shall extend to 
the adjacent property line in conformance with any adopted Transportation Plan. 
C. 
Private Streets  
Private streets within a development shall comply with the requirements of the Mesa County Standard 
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, and the development shall have a Property Owners’ 
Association and covenants sufficient to ensure road maintenance is performed. Private streets/roads shall 
