CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-27 
C. 
Methods  
In order to accomplish their purposes and intent, the regulations of this Section include methods and 
provisions for: 
1. 
Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or 
erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities; 
2. 
Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected 
against flood damage at the time of initial construction; 
3. 
Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers, 
which helps accommodate or channel flood waters; 
4. 
Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage; 
and, 
5. 
Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert flood waters or 
which may increase flood hazards in other areas. 
D. 
Applicability  
The floodplain regulations of this Chapter shall apply to all lands adjacent to any watercourse that would 
be inundated by the 100-year flood, or that is determined to be flood prone on the basis of on-site 
evidence. No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered 
without full compliance with the terms of this regulation, and other applicable regulations of the Land 
Development Code. 
E. 
Official Floodplain Maps  
1. 
For the purpose of this Section, floodplain and other pertinent boundaries shall be those shown on the 
October 16, 2012 Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Study. Those boundaries 
are hereby incorporated into this LDC along with related explanatory matter, water surface elevations, 
profiles, and cross sections. 
2. 
The Board of County Commissioners has incorporated the boundaries of flood regulatory areas shown 
on the October 16, 2012 Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood Insurance Studies into 
County Regulations, after holding public hearings prior to the adoption of the official maps. 
3. 
Official maps, as designated by the Board of County Commissioners, shall be recorded with the Mesa 
County Clerk and Recorder immediately following official designation. Amendments to any official 
maps shall be accomplished by giving public notice of a public hearing by publication in newspaper 
of general circulation within the County, at least thirty (30) days prior to the Board of County 
Commissioners’ hearing. The public notice shall identify the watercourse involved, and shall state in a 
general fashion the lands which are proposed for inclusion within the flood regulatory area. The public 
notice shall also state the map proposed for designation is available in the County Engineering Division 
for public inspection during normal working hours. 
F. 
Flood Boundary Interpretation  
1. 
Official maps, on file in the Public Works Department and recorded with the Mesa County Clerk and 
Recorder, define only approximate boundaries of the floodplain. Precise determination of boundaries 
can only be made by a comparison of flood water elevation at a particular site with the actual ground 
elevation at that site. Projected flood water elevation data is normally obtained from the Flood 
Insurance Study. 
2. 
Profile data or other technical information as provided from an approved engineering study, may be 
used as interpretation of flood boundaries. Where such profile data or other technical data becomes 
available at any particular site, that data will take precedence over boundaries shown on official 
floodplain maps, only after a Letter of Map Revision has been submitted to and approved by the 
Federal Emergency Management Agency. Submittal of Letter of Map Revision shall be the 
responsibility of the applicant. 
3. 
Correction of an error on any official floodplain map, as proven by data from a registered professional 
