CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-46 
1. 
Approval Criteria  
a. 
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall comply with any conditions of approval and all 
applicable requirements of this LDC, including, but not limited to: 
(1) 
The Use Regulations in Chapter 6: 
(2) 
Density and Dimensional Standards in Chapter 5; and  
(3) 
Development Standards in Chapter 8. 
2. 
Lapse of Approval 
The right to develop in accordance with an approved Site Plan shall lapse and be of no further effect 
if all development shown on the approved Site Plan is not complete within three (3) years of the date 
of Site Plan approval.  
C. 
Residential/Agricultural Site Plans 
Residential/Agricultural Site Plans are applications for development of new single-family detached, duplex 
or agricultural land uses.  Accessory buildings with a footprint of less than two hundred (200) square feet 
shall not require a Residential/Agricultural Site Plan approval.   
1. 
Review and action 
 The Director shall review each application for Residential/Agricultural Site Plan approval, and act to 
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application based on the Approval Criteria of Section 
4.16 C.3. 
2. 
Notice 
 No notice of the application for Residential/Agricultural Site Plan is required. 
3. 
Approval criteria 
 The Director shall approve a Residential/Agricultural Site Plan application if the Director determines 
that the proposed development will comply with any conditions of approval and all applicable 
requirements of this LDC, including, but not limited to, the Use Regulations in Chapter 6, Density And 
Dimensional Standards in Chapter 5, the Road Access Policy and Development Standards in Chapter 
8.  
4. 
Lapse of approval 
 The right to develop in accordance with an approved Residential/Agricultural Site Plan shall lapse 
and be of no further effect if all development shown on the approved Site Plan is not complete within 
the time frame required to complete construction according to a valid building permit. 
SECTION 4.17 | STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION PERMIT 
A. 
Applicability 
This section sets out the required review and approval procedures for Stormwater Construction Permits. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-23 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Stormwater Construction Permit 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
