CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-31 
D. 
Home Occupations  
1. 
General 
The home occupation regulations of this section are intended to permit residents to engage in home 
occupations while ensuring that home occupations will not be a detriment to the character and 
livability of the surrounding area. The regulations require that home occupations remain subordinate 
to the allowed principal use and that the residential viability of the dwelling unit and property is 
maintained.  Home Occupations shall require Site Plan review. 
2. 
Exempt Home Occupations 
Home occupations are not subject to the home occupations regulations where all criteria below are 
met: 
a. 
Client/customer visits to the premises are limited to a maximum of ten (10) per week; 
b. 
No nonresident employees visit the site;  
c. 
No outdoor activities or storage are on the site;  
d. 
Storage of hazardous materials/waste is not a primary use of the home occupation; and 
e. 
Quantities and types of hazardous materials stored on site cannot exceed that of normal 
household use.  
3. 
Home Occupations 
a. 
Allowed Uses 
The home occupation regulations of this subsection establish performance standards rather than 
detailed lists of allowed home occupations. Uses that comply with all of the standards of this 
subsection will be allowed as home occupations unless they are specifically prohibited. 
Consideration is given to differences in urban versus rural zone districts in the Summary of Home 
Occupation Regulations table below. 
b. 
Where Allowed 
Home occupations that comply with the regulations of this section shall be allowed as an 
accessory use to any allowed household living use. Home occupations may occur in either a 
permitted principal dwelling or a permitted accessory dwelling.  
c. 
Prohibited or Limited Uses 
(1) 
Vehicle and Large Equipment Repair 
Repair or assembly of vehicles or equipment with internal combustion engines (such as autos 
and motorcycles, excluding ‘heavy equipment’), of large appliances (such as washing 
machines, dryers, and refrigerators), or any other work related to automobiles and their parts 
shall be allowed on parcels and lots of one (1) acre or greater within Urban Zone Districts. 
The use must be conducted entirely within a permitted structure and must be limited to one 
(1) vehicle at a time. The same repair or assembly activities may occur within Rural Zone 
Districts; outdoor storage is only allowed within the screened outdoor area defined within 
the summary table within this section. 
(2) 
Animal Care or Boarding Facilities 
Limited animal care or boarding facilities are allowed as home occupations. This includes 
grooming services, training, and in-home boarding of household pets provided that no more 
than a total of five (5) animals over four (4) months of age are present including those owned 
by the occupant of the residential unit. Outdoor activity shall be limited to normal play and 
exercise during daytime hours in a fenced area and to periods when animals are allowed 
outside to relieve themselves. Boarded animals shall not be housed in outside kennels, runs, 
or enclosures. Animal hospitals, kennels, stables, and all other board and care facilities are 
not allowed as home occupations. In the Rural Zoning Districts, the boarding of up to five (5) 
horses is allowed as a home occupation provided the total number of horses does not 
