CHAPTER 7 | MEASUREMENT AND DENSITY STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
7-9 
f. 
Privacy 
 If the side wall of the house is on the property line, or within three (3) feet of the property line, 
windows or other openings that allow for visibility into the side yard of the adjacent lot are not 
allowed. Windows that do not allow visibility into the side yard of the adjacent lot, such as a 
clerestory window or a translucent window, are allowed. 
D. 
Cluster Developments  
The following additional standards shall apply to cluster development: 
1. 
The number of lots shall not exceed the maximum density of the underlying zoning district. 
2. 
Minimum lot size shall be based on the underlying zoning or if utilizing Onsite Wastewater Treatment 
Systems, lot size shall be determined by Section 8.11 of the Land Development Code. 
 
Figure 7-8: Cluster Development 
3. 
The lots and building sites must be located to avoid adverse impacts on steep slopes, ridge lines, 
wetlands, and wildlife habitats, wildfire hazard areas, floodplains, and, within the Rural Planning Area, 
any prime, or prime and unique agricultural land. 
4. 
Dimensional standards shall be determined by the closest applicable Zoning District that allows the 
minimum lot size proposed in the Cluster Development (e.g., if the property is zoned AFT and the 
proposed minimum lot size is 1 acre, the setbacks and other dimensional standards for the RSF-1 Zoning 
District shall apply). 
E. 
Urban Residential Reserve (URR) Subdivision Standards 
The following standards shall be met for applications for Minor Subdivisions and Major Subdivisions in the 
URR zone district: 
1. 
The lot or parcel must be a minimum of ten (10) acres to qualify for subdivision. (Previously subdivided 
lots created under AFT zoning may apply individually without averaging density back to the total 
acreage of the recorded subdivision.) 
2. 
A minimum of forty (40) percent of the gross site area shall be retained in a single building lot (the 
Reserve Lot). Two (2) Reserve Lots may be allowed if necessary to accommodate natural physical 
divisions of the property or necessary rights-of-way dedication.  
3. 
Land in agricultural production shall be located in the Reserve Lot(s) to the greatest extent possible.  
4. 
If outlots or easements are necessary to supply sewer in the future to the developed lots or to the 
Reserve Lot(s) as determined by the project engineer or the municipality, they shall be designated on 
