CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-38 
Plan shall govern the preparation of the required Final Development Plan. The approved Outline 
Development Plan shall be supported by the project final design. Should the Outline Development 
Plan prove unbuildable or otherwise not feasible based on the final PUD Plans, the Outline 
Development Plan must be revised to reflect the limitations identified in the design of the final PUD 
Plans. 
8. 
Lapse of Outline Development Plan Approval 
An approved Outline Development Plan shall lapse and be of no further force and effect if a complete 
Final PUD Plan application for the PUD or a phase of the PUD has not been submitted within one (1) 
year of the date of Outline Development Plan approval by the Board of County Commissioners. One 
(1) extension of time up to eighteen (18) months may be approved by the Director upon review of a 
written request when deemed necessary to resolve review comments or due to unforeseen 
circumstances. In the event that approval lapses, the Outline Development Plan shall be of no effect, 
and the property may be developed only in accordance with the regulations of the underlying base 
zoning district. In the event of lapse of approval, the Director shall record a lapse of approval affidavit 
with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder, and initiate action to rezone the property to a zoning 
district that is consistent with the Mesa County Master Plan, in accordance with the Rezoning 
procedure of Section 4.15. 
9. 
Appeal 
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided 
by law. 
D. 
Final Plan 
After approval of an Outline Development Plan, a Final Plan application may be submitted. 
1. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-18 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Final Plan applications. 
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-18: Summary of the Final Plan Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.12. D.2. The decision shall be 
in writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
