CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-36 
review. A resident of a single-family or duplex may have a maximum of six (6) yard sales per calendar 
year. Occupants of a multi-family building are limited to a maximum of six (6) yard sales per calendar 
year per structure. Each yard sale event is allowed to run a maximum of four (4) consecutive days and 
must be spaced a minimum of thirty (30) days apart.  
C. 
Approval Criteria  
The Director shall approve a temporary use if it is determined that all of the following conditions are met: 
1. 
That the proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the temporary use; 
2. 
That the proposed site is adequately served by streets or highways having sufficient width and 
improvements to accommodate the kind and quantity of traffic that such temporary use will or could 
reasonably generate;  
3. 
That adequate parking to accommodate vehicular traffic to be generated by such use will be 
 available either on site or at alternate locations; and 
4. 
That the operation of the requested use at the location proposed and within the time period specified 
will not jeopardize, endanger, or otherwise constitute a menace to the public health, safety, or 
general welfare. 
D. 
Conditions of Approval  
In approving temporary use requests, the Director shall be authorized to impose such conditions upon the 
premises benefited by the permit as may be necessary to reduce or minimize any potential adverse impact 
upon other property in the area, so long as the condition relates to a situation created or aggravated by 
the proposed use and is roughly proportional to its impact. For example, the Director shall be authorized to 
require: 
1. 
Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular access and egress; 
2. 
Control of nuisance factors, such as the prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent 
properties, noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat; 
3. 
Regulation of temporary buildings, structures and facilities, including placement, height and size, 
location of equipment, and open spaces, including buffer areas and other yards; 
4. 
Provision of sanitary and medical facilities; 
5. 
Provision of solid waste collection and disposal; 
6. 
Provision of security and safety measures; 
7. 
Regulation of operating hours and days, including the duration of the temporary use to a shorter time 
period than that requested or specified in this section; and 
8. 
Submission of a performance bond or other financial guarantee to ensure that any temporary facilities 
or structures used for such proposed temporary use will be removed from the site within a reasonable 
time following the event and that the property will be restored to its former condition. 
SECTION 6.06 | OTHER USES AND ACTIVITIES 
A. 
Restricted Uses and Activities 
Certain uses and activities may be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare, and as such are 
regulated or limited as described herein. 
B. 
Accumulation and Storage of Vehicles 
1. 
Only one (1) non-farm vehicle not having current Colorado license plates or registration may be stored 
in ordinary view on a property.  This includes automobiles, motorcycles, trailers, campers, recreational 
vehicles and other such vehicles that would require registration or licensing.   
a. 
Additional vehicles may be stored on a property when contained within an approved enclosed 
structure or when screened from ordinary view by means of a solid fence, evergreen trees or 
shrubbery, berm, terrain, or other appropriate means.  
