CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-9 
may include but shall not be limited to: 
(1) 
Agricultural uses; 
(2) 
Conservation of open land in natural state; 
(3) 
Passive recreation areas (trails, community gardens, lawn, picnic areas, etc.); 
(4) 
Active recreation areas;  
(5) 
Easements for drainage, access, sewer or water lines, stormwater management facilities; 
(6) 
Parking for active recreation areas (ten (10) or fewer spaces); or 
(7) 
“Homestead lots” that are at least five acres in size, of which a maximum of one acre may 
be developed with a single-family dwelling and accessory uses. The undeveloped portion 
of the lot may be counted toward the minimum fifty (50) percent open land requirement for 
the development, and must be restricted from future development and further subdivision 
by an open space easement.  Dwellings on homestead lots count toward the maximum 
density permitted on a tract.  
e. 
Above ground utilities and road rights-of-way areas may not be counted toward the required 
fifty (50) percent minimum open land requirement. 
f. 
Designated open land should maximize common boundaries with open land on adjacent tracts.  
g. 
Safe and convenient pedestrian access shall be provided to open lands where appropriate. 
Access to land used for agriculture may be restricted. Public access is not necessarily required 
and should be determined on a case by case basis. 
h. 
Use of motorized vehicles within designated open land is prohibited except within approved 
driveways and parking areas. Maintenance, law enforcement, emergency, and farm vehicles 
are permitted, as needed.  
i. 
Design of the development shall be such that natural features are generally maintained in their 
natural condition. Permitted modifications may include: buffer area landscaping, revegetation, 
streambank, riparian, wetlands protection and management.  
j. 
All developments utilizing the OL Overlay Zone shall include provisions to ensure the designated 
open space remains in open land. The recorded subdivision plat for the development shall 
indicate the designated open land is to remain open land as an open space easement. Deed 
restrictions may be required for designated tracts of open land. Use of conservation easements 
is encouraged where appropriate. 
k. 
All developments utilizing the OL Overlay Zone shall include provisions for the perpetual 
maintenance of the designated open land for appropriate uses as listed in this section (e.g. 
covenants for a homeowners association). All applicable weed, pest, and nuisance ordinances 
and regulations shall apply to all properties. 
5. 
Residential Grouping, Design and Density 
a. 
Developments shall be encouraged to preserve prime agricultural land to the greatest extent 
possible as defined by the Natural Resources Conservation Service. 
b. 
Structures shall be located in areas least likely to block any scenic views, to the greatest extent 
possible. 
c. 
An open land buffer area with a minimum width of one hundred (100) feet shall be provided 
between residential groupings (clusters), to the greatest extent possible. 
d. 
A maximum density of one single-family, detached unit per two and a half (2.5) acres shall be 
permitted (based on gross density of the tract). 
e. 
All lots shall be grouped into clusters of at least two and no more than twenty-five (25) lots. 
