CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-28 
engineer, may be proposed for correction through the procedures defined in this Section. 
G. 
Interpretation  
In the interpretation and application of these floodplain regulations, all provisions shall be considered as 
minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the County, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal 
any other powers granted under State statutes. 
H. 
Warning and Disclaimer of Liability  
The degree of flood protection intended to be provided by this Section is considered reasonable for 
regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may 
occur on occasion, or the flood height may be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams 
and bridge opening restricted by debris. This Section does not imply that areas outside floodplain area 
boundaries, or land uses permitted within such areas will always be totally free from flooding or flood 
damages. This Section shall not create any liability on the part of, or a cause of action against the Mesa 
County Board of Commissioners or any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency, for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this regulation or any 
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. 
I. 
Floodplain Nonconformities  
The existing lawful use of a structure or premises that does not comply with the floodplain regulations of this 
Section, may be continued subject to the following conditions: 
1. 
No such use shall be expanded or enlarged except in conformity with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Substantial improvements, as herein defined, to any nonconforming structure or use must result in the 
permanent change of the structure or use to a conforming use. 
3. 
If such use is discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive months, any future use of the building and 
premises shall conform to this Section. 
J. 
Floodplain Land Use Regulations  
1. 
Prohibited Uses 
Any land use within a designated floodplain that is not specifically allowed or conditionally allowed 
by means of a Floodplain Development Permit is prohibited. 
2. 
Uses Allowed in Floodplain Areas 
Designated floodplain areas are usually divided into two subdistricts: the floodway and the flood 
fringe. Where this distinction has not yet been made, a site-specific comparison between flood water 
elevation and ground elevations will be necessary to make such distinction. Until such distinction has 
been made, the land shall be considered to lie within the floodway.  
3. 
Flood Prone Areas 
Flood prone areas may require a detailed hydrological engineering study in order to define and map 
the actual 100-year floodplain, to determine site-specific flood elevations and ground elevations, and 
to distinguish between the floodway and the flood fringe. Until such a distinction has been made, the 
land will be considered to lie within the floodway. 
4. 
Floodway Districts 
a. 
Uses Requiring Floodplain Development Permits 
Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate with the floodway district, 
including, but not limited to, the following, shall require a Floodplain Development Permit: 
(1) 
Private and public recreational uses, such as, but not limited to, golf courses, tennis courts, 
driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, target ranges, 
shooting trap and skeet ranges, fish hatcheries, swimming pools and open air theaters; 
(2) 
Utility transmission lines, pipelines, roadways, water monitoring devices and railroad rights-of-
way, but not including railroad sidings and freight or passenger transfer or holding areas; 
