CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-1 
CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS 
SECTION 12.01 | GENERAL 
A1-30, AE:  (Flood Hazard Zone): Area of special flood hazards with base flood elevations determined. 
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials 
AH:  (Flood Hazard): Area of special flood hazards having shallow water depths and/or unpredictable flow paths 
between one and three feet, and with water surface elevations determined.  
A0: (Flood Hazard Zone): Area of special flood hazards having shallow water depths (usually sheet flow) between 
one and three feet and with water surface elevations determined.  Areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities also 
determined. 
Abut/Abutting: To physically touch or border upon; or to share a common property line or border.  
Access:  A way or means of approach to provide safe, adequate and usable physical entrance and exit to a 
property, use, or parking space. 
Accessory Use:  A use or structure that:  
1. 
Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection with a principal structure or use; 
2. 
Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of the principal use; and 
3. 
Is located on the same lot and in the same zoning district as the principal use. 
Adjacent:  Same as “abutting.” 
Adult Bookstore: Any establishment that sells or rents Adult Material including but not limited to books, magazines, 
movies, films, slides, or other photographic or written material and/or devices. 
Adult Cabaret, Restaurant or other Business:  A cabaret, restaurant or place of business that features topless or 
bottomless dancers, waitresses, waiters, or entertainers. 
Adult Entertainment Establishment: Any establishment that conducts as a principal use of the premises or as a 
significant or substantial adjunct to another use of the premises, the sale, rental, display or other offering of live 
entertainment, dancing or material that is distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on depicting, exhibiting, 
describing or relating to Specified Sexual Activities or Specified Anatomical Areas as an attraction to the premises, 
including but not limited to Adult Bookstores, Adult Hotels/Motels, Adult Motion Picture Theaters, Adult Restaurants, 
Adult Cabarets or other Adult Businesses. 
Adult Hotel or Motel: Any hotel or motel in which the presentation of Adult Material is the primary or a principal 
attraction.  
Adult Material:  Any material including, but not limited to books, magazines, newspapers, movie films, slides, or other 
photographic or written materials, video tapes or devices that are distinguished by their emphasis on depicting, 
describing or relating to Specified Anatomical Areas or Specified Sexual Activities. 
Adult Motion Picture Theater:  Any fully enclosed theater in which the presentation of Adult Material is the primary or 
principal attraction. 
Agrivoltaics: Agrivoltaics, agrophotovoltaics, agrisolar, or dual-use solar is the integrated use of land for both solar 
panels and agricultural production, such as crop or livestock production or pollinator habitats, underneath or 
adjacent to solar panels. 
Air Navigation Facility:  Any facility, other than one owned and operated by the United States, used in, available for 
use in, or designed for use in aid of air navigation, including any structures, mechanisms, lights, beacons, markers, 
communicating systems, or other instrumentalities or devices used or useful as an aid, or constituting an advantage 
or convenience to the safe take-off, navigation, and landing of aircraft, or the safe and efficient operation or 
maintenance of an airport, and any combination of any or all of such facilities. 
Airport:  Any area of land or water which is used, or intended for use, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any 
appurtenant areas which are used, or intended for use, for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights-of-way, 
together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon however financed.  Such facilities may also include 
