CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-10 
f. 
Minimum lot sizes: 
(1) 
All lots utilizing Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems (OWTS) shall meet the OWTS standards 
as determined by Section 8.11 of this LDC. 
(2) 
Minimum lot size for lots served by public sanitary sewer service shall be determined on a site 
specific basis through the subdivision review process, based on compatibility with 
surrounding land uses. 
g. 
All lots within clusters shall be adjacent to designated open land to the extent possible.  
h. 
Disturbance to mature trees and other significant vegetation shall be minimized. 
i. 
All new lots should access internal roads. 
j. 
Minimum setbacks between principal residential structures and the following designated open 
land uses shall be as follows: 
(1) 
Pasture, croplands, orchards:  one hundred (100) feet 
(2) 
Barns and livestock buildings/pens: three hundred (300) feet 
(3) 
Edge of drainages, wetlands, floodplains: one hundred (100) feet 
(4) 
Active recreation area: one hundred fifty (150) feet 
6. 
Other minimum setbacks for principal residential structures shall be: 
a. 
Street Setback:  
(1) 
Comply with AFT District standards 
b. 
Side setback:  
(1) 
50 feet (lots over three acres) 
(2) 
 25 feet (lots over one acre and up to three acres) 
(3) 
15 feet (lots one acre or less, or lot width of 150 feet or less) 
c. 
Rear setback:   
(1) 
50 feet (lots over one acre in size) 
(2) 
 25 feet (lots one acre or less, or lot width of 150 feet or less) 
Other bulk and use requirements of the AFT Zoning District apply where there is no conflict with 
the above standards. 
C. 
Village of Mesa Overlay District 
1. 
Purpose  
The Village of Mesa Overlay District is intended to encourage urban development where adequate 
services already exist; to simplify the development process in the Overlay District; to recognize the 
Mesa Sanitation District as the logical growth boundaries for the Mesa rural community; and to 
strengthen the existing village character of Mesa.  
2. 
Village of Mesa Overlay District 
a. 
Village of Mesa Overlay District referred to in this LDC is on file at the Public Works Department. 
The Village of Mesa Overlay District is incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth.   Areas 
annexed by the Mesa Sanitation District subsequent to the adoption of this LDC may be included 
in the Overlay District if approved by the Board of County Commissioners as a rezoning request 
pursuant to Section 4.15 of this LDC. Relationship to Underlying Zoning 
b. 
Property owners shall have the option of developing in accordance with the underlying zoning 
or with the Village of Mesa Overlay District standards of this section.  
