CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-48
Figure 4-24: Summary of the Stormwater Construction Permit Variance Procedure 
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
5
Stormwater 
Administrator 
Action
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
STEP
5
C.
Approval Criteria
In evaluating the proposed request, the Stormwater Regulations of Section 8.22; all technical evaluations,
and the following criteria shall be considered:
1.
Land disturbance activities in areas where the topography would prohibit runoff from leaving the site
or enter a waterway;
2.
Agricultural and silviculture activities such as home gardening and tilling a field for weed control;
3.
Maintenance activities, such as re-grading a dirt road, re-landscaping a lawn, cleaning out roadside
ditches, and other land disturbances that do not alter original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or
original purpose;
4.
Re-paving a roadway, providing that underlying and/or surrounding soil is not cleared, graded,
excavated or otherwise disturbed;
5.
For small construction activity (i.e.: from 1- to 5-acres of earth disturbance) based on the Rainfall
Erosivity Factor (i.e.: the R Factor) (see Colorado Discharge Permits System Regulation No. 61 @
61.3(2)(f)(ii)(B)) and duration of the exposed disturbance. To obtain a waiver from the CDPS
Construction General Permit, the applicant must submit calculations to the WQCD (see “Policy on the
State Approved Method for Calculating the Rainfall Erosivity Factor” in SWMM, which can be obtained
in pdf form at http://www.cdphe.state.co.us/wq/permitsunit/index.html; and
6.
Grading or an excavation below finished grade for basements, footings, retaining wall, or other
structures provided the land disturbance is less than one (1-acre) and are not part of a Larger
Common Plan of Development or Sale.
D.
Appeals
Appeals of the Stormwater Administrator’s decision on the Stormwater Construction Permit Variance
application may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the procedures of
Section 4.02, Appeals of Administrative Decisions.
SECTION 4.19 | STORMWATER QUALITY PROGRAM EXEMPTIONS 
This section sets out exemptions from the stormwater quality program. The exemption from permitting does not 
relieve the owner from meeting discharge limitations described in the Mesa County Stormwater Management 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Stormwater Administrator. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Stormwater Administrator . 
The Stormwater Administrator shall distribute the application to the 
appropriate review agencies. 
The Stormwater Administrator shall review the request based on the 
Approval Criteria under Section 4.18 C. and shall prepare a written 
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Stormwater Administrator shall make a decision based on the 
Approval Criteria under Section 4.18 C. The decision shall be in writing 
and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
