CHAPTER 3 | GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
3-7 
3. 
Any person who submitted written comments on the application before final action was taken 
(excluding persons who have only signed petitions or form letters). 
SECTION 3.06 | BURDEN OF PROOF OR PERSUASION  
The burden of demonstrating that an application complies with applicable review and approval criteria is on the 
applicant. The burden is not on the County or other parties to show that the criteria have been met. 
SECTION 3.07 | SIMULTANEOUS PROCESSING  
Whenever two (2) or more forms of review are required, the Director may allow the applications to be processed 
simultaneously.  
SECTION 3.08 | COMPLIANCE WITH MINERAL AND ENERGY RESOURCES MASTER PLAN  
In any area containing a known commercial mineral deposit, no authorization, in any form, shall be given which 
would interfere with the present or future extraction of such deposit. Certain uses may be authorized, but only if said 
use does not permit erection of permanent structures upon, or otherwise permanently preclude, the extraction of 
commercial mineral deposits from, land subject to said use. 
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit: (a) the Board of County Commissioners from zoning for 
agricultural use, only, land not otherwise zoned on July 1, 1973; (b) a use of zoned land permissible under the zoning 
governing such land on July 1, 1973; and (c) the Board of County Commissioners from acquiring property known to 
contain a commercial mineral deposit and using said property for a public purpose;  except that such use shall not 
permit erection of permanent structures which would preclude permanently the extraction of commercial mineral 
deposits. 
SECTION 3.09 | GENERAL APPROVAL CRITERIA  
In addition to specific approval criteria listed for each type of development review process, the Decision-Making 
Body shall consider if the proposal: 
A. 
Complies with all applicable standards, provisions, and the Purpose (Section 1.05) of this LDC;  
B. 
Is consistent with review agency comments; and 
C. 
Is consistent with applicable intergovernmental agreements between the County and other entities.  
 
