CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-7 
Figure 4-3: Summary of the Extinguishment of Public Utility Easement Procedure 
STEP
6
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
C. 
Approval Criteria 
An Extinguishment of Public Utility Easement application may be approved if no utility provider objects to 
the proposal and the request is consistent with the General Approval Criteria under Section 3.09.  
D. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided by 
law. 
SECTION 4.07 | FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT 
A. 
Applicability  
A Floodplain Development Permit is required prior to any land disturbance and before construction or 
development begins within any area of special flood hazard area established in Section 8.14 to ensure 
conformance to the stormwater quality provisions and other applicable requirements of this LDC. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-4 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Floodplain Development Permit 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Approval Criteria under (Section 4.06 C.) and shall prepare a 
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit application and, at the close of the 
public hearing, act to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the 
application, based on the Approval Criteria of Section 4.06 C. 
