CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-3 
Floodplain Board of Appeals shall have all the powers of the official from whom the appeal is taken, 
and they may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify the decision being appealed. If the 
Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Floodplain Board of Appeals determines that 
it is necessary to obtain additional evidence in order to resolve the matter, it may remand the matter 
to the official from whom the appeal is taken, with directions to obtain such evidence and to 
reconsider the decision in light of such evidence. 
2. 
Consideration of Evidence 
In considering a request for appeal, the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or 
Floodplain Board of Appeals shall consider only those facts, evidence, testimony and witnesses that 
were part of the official record of the decision-maker’s action. No new evidence or testimony may be 
considered, except County staff may be asked to interpret materials contained in the record.  
3. 
Burden of Persuasion or Error 
In acting on the appeal, the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Floodplain 
Board of Appeals shall grant to the administrative official’s decision a presumption of correctness; the 
burden of persuasion of error shall be on the appellant.  
H. 
Approval Criteria  
An appeal shall be sustained only if the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Floodplain 
Board of Appeals finds that the administrative official erred.  
I. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustments or Floodplain Board of 
Appeals shall be made to the courts, as provided by law.  
SECTION 4.03 | CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS  
A. 
Applicability  
This section sets out the required review and approval procedures for a Conditional Use Permit. A 
Conditional Use Permit shall be required prior to the establishment of any conditional use identified in Table 
6-1. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-2 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Conditional Use Permit applications. 
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
