CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-22 
(1) 
The facility should be located at the base of slopes to provide a background of topography 
and/or natural cover.  
(2) 
Cut and fill should be minimized when locating the facility. 
(3) 
Surface use agreements shall be taken into consideration.  
d. 
All State and County health standards and requirements must be met.  
e. 
Campers, tents, and/or recreational vehicles (RV’s) shall not be allowed as temporary employee 
housing.  
f. 
Landscaping, fencing, and berms shall be used in combinations that effectively screen the facility 
from existing residences visible from the proposed housing site.  
g. 
Wildlife-proof trash receptacles shall be used (where applicable). 
h. 
Except as required for safety purposes, reflective materials shall not be utilized on any buildings, 
walls, or fencing. Reflective materials stored outdoors shall not be visible from roads or properties 
in the area. 
i. 
Residential noise limits shall be complied with pursuant to the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation 
Commission Eight Hundred (800) Series rules for noise abatement. 
j. 
Engines, compressors, and motors shall be equipped with quiet design mufflers or equivalents. All 
mechanical equipment shall be placed and operated to contain vibration within the property 
boundary and shall be subject to the noise limits above.  
k. 
The site will be designed as a containment area and shall maintain a minimum distance from 
perennial or intermittent streams or drainages as recommended by the project engineer or 
geologist.   
l. 
Access roads shall be maintained at all times to allow emergency vehicles into the site as 
needed. 
3. 
Time Limitations 
Conditional Use Permit approvals for temporary employee housing facilities are valid for a period of 
three (3) years. The operator may submit a request for an extension of time before the end of the three 
(3) year period. As part of the request, the operator shall submit to the Director a written narrative 
describing the condition of the housing facility, its compliance with each of the requirements, and 
demonstrate the continued need for the housing facility in accordance with Section 6.02 X.1. above. 
4. 
Closure 
When the need for the use is finished, the facility and associated structure must be removed within 
ninety (90) days of closure. The Director shall be notified at least ten (10) days prior to removal of 
improvements. Within ninety (90) days after the removal is completed, a reclamation report shall be 
submitted to the Director indicating that the site was reclaimed as set forth in the approved 
reclamation plan.  
5. 
Exception 
Housing located near or on a well drilling pad to serve that well drilling pad, and houses up to twenty 
(20) workers, shall be reviewed as an accessory use to the drilling operation, provided that the Minor 
Site Plan for the well pad includes a narrative provision demonstrating a legitimate and temporary 
need for more than sixteen (16) workers. The intent of this language is to set the baseline standard for 
beds at sixteen (16) while also allowing an opportunity to place as many as twenty (20) provided the 
need can be demonstrated.  The operator shall submit, with the Site Plan application, a checklist 
which addresses the review criteria in Section 6.02 Q. of this LDC and that includes the following: 
a. 
A general description of facilities and structures located on the drilling pad during drilling activities 
and their uses;  
b. 
A count of the number of beds proposed for essential personnel; and 
