CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-33 
b. 
Size  
The size of an accessory dwelling unit is computed using the total heated living area of the 
proposed structure.  
(1) 
On parcels or lots less than one half (1/2) acre in size:   
A maximum of nine hundred (900) square feet is allowed. 
(2) 
On parcels or lots greater than one half (1/2) acre but less than one (1) acre in size:   
A maximum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet is allowed. 
(3) 
On parcels or lots one (1) acre or greater in size: 
A maximum of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet or fifty (50) percent of the 
heated living area of the principal dwelling whichever is greater.    
(4) 
Combination Accessory Dwellings/Accessory Structures: 
A combination accessory dwelling/accessory structure is an accessory dwelling contained 
within an accessory structure such as, but not limited to, a garage, shop, or barn.  
c. 
Setbacks 
Accessory dwellings shall meet principal structure setbacks. 
d. 
Property Manager or Representative 
If the principal dwelling or the accessory dwelling is not occupied by the owner of the parcel or 
lot on which the accessory dwelling is located, a local property manager or representative shall 
be required.   
(1) The local property manager or representative shall be a county resident who can be 
contacted by telephone and is available at all times when the home is rented. The 
representative shall be available for resolution of conflicts, cleanup of the property, or issues 
with the home or occupants and shall be able to respond within a reasonable amount of 
time.  
(2) If the local representative changes, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to immediately 
notify the Mesa County Planning Department of the new representative’s name and phone 
number. 
(3) The property shall not be rented any time the local representative is not available. 
e. 
Parking 
At least one (1) off-street parking space must be provided for each bedroom in the accessory 
dwelling. 
f. 
Lot/Parcel Size 
The minimum size of a parcel or lot on which an accessory dwelling may be approved is six 
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet.  
g. 
Land Use 
An accessory dwelling may only be approved on a lot or parcel that contains one (1) single-
family detached dwelling. An accessory dwelling will not be allowed on a parcel or lot that 
contains a duplex or a multi-family dwelling. 
h. 
Construction Material and Roof Design 
The design and construction material of the accessory dwelling shall be complementary to those 
of the principal single-family dwelling. 
F. 
Camping 
1. 
Location 
