CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-31
lapse and be of no further effect. Two (2) one (1) year extensions of time may be approved by 
the Director upon review of a written request when deemed necessary due to unforeseen 
circumstances. If approval lapses, the Director shall record a lapse of approval affidavit with the 
Mesa County Clerk and Recorder.  
e.
Corrections for Errors or Omissions for Minor Changes to Recorded Plats
If it is discovered that there is a minor survey or drafting error, the Registered Land Surveyor who
has certified the plat shall be notified of any errors or omissions, where upon the Registered Land
Surveyor shall submit an Affidavit of Correction to the County Surveyor for verification. If the
Surveyor who certified the plat is absent, the County Surveyor shall prepare the Affidavit of
Correction. The completed Affidavit shall be submitted to the Mesa County Community
Development Department to be recorded with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder within ten
(10) days of completion.
6.
Appeals
Appeals of the decisions of the Director may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in
accordance with the procedures of Section 4.02.
G.
Physical and Legal Separations
1.
Eligibility
In order to qualify as a Physical and Legal Separation, the following shall be considered:
a.
Be in the form of an actual physical barrier, such as a public road, a railroad track, a river, an
easement or a ditch or canal;
b.
The physical barrier must be owned by an unrelated third party; and
2.
Procedure
Figure 4-13 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Physical and Legal Separation
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-13: Summary of the Physical and Legal Separations Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.10 G.3. The decision shall be 
in writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
