CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-22 
bicycles, clothing, dry goods, electronic equipment, fabric, furniture, garden supplies, gifts, groceries, 
hardware, home improvements, household products, jewelry, pets, pet food, pharmaceuticals, plants, 
printed material, and stationery); food sales; sales or leasing of consumer vehicles (including 
passenger vehicles, motorcycles, light and medium trucks and recreational vehicles and equipment); 
wineries; retail plant nurseries; flea markets; and farmer’s markets. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Lumber yards and other building material sales that sell primarily to contractors and do not have 
a retail orientation are classified as Wholesale Sales. 
b. 
Sales, rental, or leasing of heavy trucks and equipment or manufactured housing units are 
classified as Wholesale Sales. 
c. 
Wholesale plant nurseries are classified as Agriculture. 
B. 
Office and Personal Service 
1. 
Characteristics 
 Office uses are characterized by activities conducted in an office setting and generally focusing on 
business, government, professional, medical, or financial services.  Personal service uses may also 
provide personal services, product repair or services for consumer and business goods. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses may include cafeterias, health facilities, parking, other amenities primarily for the use 
of employees in the firm or building, drive-throughs, and storage of vehicles and materials associated 
with the business.  Limited retail that complements the service being provided may be included as 
accessory to the primary use. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include professional services such as lawyers, accountants, engineers, or architects; 
financial businesses such as lenders, brokerage houses, banks, or real estate agents; data processing; 
sales offices; government offices and public utility offices; TV and radio studios; medical and dental 
clinics, medical and dental labs; emergency medical care not associated with a hospital; and blood-
collection facilities. 
Examples of personal services include laundromats; photographic studios; photocopy and blueprint 
services; hair, tanning and personal care services; martial arts studios; art, dance or music classes; 
taxidermists; mortuaries and crematoriums; private museums; repair of TVs, bicycles, clocks, watches, 
shoes, guns, appliances and office equipment; tailor; locksmith; upholsterer; veterinarians; and animal 
care, grooming, boarding and training. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
 Offices that are part of and located with a principal use in another category are considered 
accessory to the firm’s primary activity. Headquarters offices, when in conjunction with or 
adjacent to a principal use in another category, are considered part of the other category. 
b. 
Repair and service of consumer motor vehicles, motorcycles and light and medium trucks is 
classified as Vehicle Repair. Repair and service of industrial vehicles and equipment and heavy 
trucks is classified as Industrial Service. 
c. 
Commercial boarding stables are classified as Agriculture. 
C. 
Entertainment 
1. 
Characteristics 
Entertainment businesses provide continuous recreation and entertainment-oriented activities and 
services, Entertainment businesses also include Major Entertainment Event uses, which are 
characterized by activities and structures that draw large numbers of people to specific events or 
shows and are generally of a spectator nature.  Minor Entertainment Event uses are smaller special 
events such as weddings, reunions and similar social or business gatherings, held on a limited basis.  
