CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-19 
(a) Spacing between clumps of brush or trees, as measured between the crown of each 
clump, shall be no closer than two (2) times the height of the taller clump. The maximum 
width of any clump of brush or trees shall be no greater than two (2) times the height 
of the clump. Thinned material shall be removed from the site; and 
(i) 
All branches of trees or brush shall be pruned to a minimum height of ten (10) 
feet above the ground or one-half the total height of the tree or bush, whichever 
is less. Pruned material shall be removed from the site. 
(ii) 
Propane tanks and firewood may be located in Segment B, but in no case shall 
such tanks and/or firewood be located within twenty (20) feet of the primary 
structure. Propane tanks shall be located on gravel pads and shall not be 
located immediately adjacent to grass-covered areas. 
2. 
Zone 2 
Zone 2 shall consist of the area immediately beyond Zone 1 and extending to seventy (70) feet from 
the primary structure, not to extend beyond the property line. Trees shall be initially thinned in this area 
to maintain a minimum of five (5) feet between tree crowns. All dead trees must be removed from 
Zone 2 initial construction, and subsequent dead trees shall be removed annually, except that two (2) 
dead trees per acre may remain to serve as wildlife habitat.  
3. 
Maintenance 
Persons owning, leasing, or otherwise maintaining new residential structures covered by provisions of 
this LDC are responsible for proper maintenance of the defensible space. Maintenance shall include 
modifying or removing flammable vegetation, keeping leaves, needles, and removing other dead 
vegetative material annually from roofs of structures.  
D. 
Ridge Lines  
The purpose of these ridge line development standards is to preserve the character of identified ridge lines, 
and to minimize soil and slope instability and erosion.  
1. 
Applicability 
These provisions apply to lots platted after May 2000 and to structures built after the adoption date of 
this LDC. These provisions shall not apply to parcels of land and structures existing prior to May 2000.  
2. 
Grand Junction Comprehensive Planning Area  
Within the Grand Junction Comprehensive Planning Area, new buildings and walls located within the 
mapped ridge line areas (within one (1) mile of the centerline of US Interstate 70, US Highway 6 and 
US Highway 50, Colorado State Highway 141 and Colorado State Highway 340, Monument Road, 
South Camp Road, and South Broadway) shall be setback a minimum of fifty (50) feet from the ridge 
line. 
a. 
Setbacks shall be measured to the building envelope as established at the time of platting or site 
plan review.  
b. 
Ridge lines shall be determined on a site specific basis and shall be that point at which the line 
of sight intersects the slope profile. 
c. 
Line of sight shall be measured from the nearest point on the centerline of the road most parallel 
with the ridge line.  
d. 
This setback shall not apply if the applicant produces adequate visual representation that a 
proposed new structure will not be visible on the skyline as viewed from the centerline of the 
mapped road corridors, or that mitigation can be provided, such as vegetation, building height, 
color, or orientation, that sufficiently minimizes the view of the structure from the road corridor. In 
no case shall a structure be set back less than thirty (30) feet from the ridge line.  
3. 
Rural Planning Area 
Within the Rural Planning Area, new buildings that are located more than one-quarter (1/4) mile and 
