CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-8 
Figure 4-4: Summary of the Floodplain Development Permit Procedure 
STEP
5
Floodplain 
Administrator 
Action
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
C. 
Approval Criteria  
In evaluating the proposed request, the following shall be considered: 
1. 
The effect of the flood on the site itself, including: 
a. 
The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the floodwaters 
expected at the site; 
b. 
The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage, and the effect of 
such damage on the individual owners; 
c. 
Whether the proposed use will be inhabited or only used on a part time basis; 
d. 
The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, and the ability of these systems to prevent 
contamination or unsanitary conditions; 
e. 
The community importance of the services provided by the proposed facility; 
f. 
The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location, and the availability of alternative sites 
for the use; 
g. 
The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and development anticipated 
in the future; 
h. 
The precedent that would be set by granting the permit, and the cumulative effect of numerous 
similar permits, if issued; 
i. 
The safety of access to the property in times of flood for emergency and non-emergency 
vehicles; and 
j. 
Whether the property is endangered by channel relocation due to natural causes. 
2. 
The effects conveyed downstream or upstream of allowing such a use, including: 
a. 
The effect on depth and velocity of floodwater (i.e., peak flow characteristics); 
b. 
The danger to life and property downstream due to increased flood velocities and heights 
caused by encroachment or obstruction upstream or downstream; 
c. 
Whether the depth of floodwaters on neighboring parcels would be increased by more than the 
designated height above normally expected flood depths; 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Floodplain Administrator. The submitted application 
shall include all materials specified in the checklist provided by the 
Floodplain Administrator. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall distribute the application to the 
appropriate review agencies. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall make a decision based on the 
Approval Criteria under Section 4.07 C. The decision shall be in writing 
and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
