CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-35 
1. 
Application Review 
a. 
Review and decision of a Master Plan amendment will be governed by geographic location as 
follows: 
(1) 
The municipality shall decide questions of amending the Master Plan for property within the 
corporate limits of the respective municipality. 
(2) 
Outside municipal corporate limits, the Mesa County Planning Commission shall have sole 
authority to amend the Master Plan. The appropriate municipality shall be given the 
opportunity to review and comment upon all such proposed amendments prior to action 
by Mesa County; and 
(3) 
Plans adopted jointly with a municipality, including area, neighborhood, sub-area, and 
community plans require the Mesa County Planning Commission and the appropriate 
municipality to jointly amend the plan.  
b. 
Review Process 
(1) 
When a municipality and the Mesa County Planning Commission must jointly amend the 
plan, at least one public hearing will be held and a vote shall be made within thirty (30) 
calendar days of the close of the hearing. A joint public hearing is permissible, but not 
mandatory. Such hearings shall be conducted as determined by the presiding chairperson. 
If a joint hearing is held, the chairpersons shall jointly determine how to conduct such a 
hearing. 
(2) 
The Mesa County Planning Commission shall approve a Master Plan Amendment only if they 
determine that the Master Plan Amendment is consistent with the Approval Criteria under 
Section 4.11 C. 
(3) 
When a municipality and the Mesa County Planning Commission both must act, failure to 
agree means the Master Plan is not amended. 
C. 
Approval Criteria  
In evaluating a proposed amendment, the following shall be considered: 
1. 
There was an error in the original Master Plan such that then-existing facts, projects, or trends (that 
were reasonably foreseeable) were not accounted for; 
2. 
Events subsequent to the adoption of the Master Plan have invalidated the original premises and 
findings; 
3. 
The character and/or condition of the area has changed enough that the amendment is            
acceptable; 
4. 
The amendment is consistent with the goals and policies of the Master Plan, including applicable 
special area, neighborhood, and corridor plans; 
5. 
The amendment is consistent with any intergovernmental agreements in effect between the County 
and any other unit of government; 
6. 
Public and community facilities are adequate to serve the type and scope of land use proposed; 
7. 
An inadequate supply of suitably designated land is available in the community, as defined by the 
presiding body, to accommodate the proposed land use; and 
8. 
The community or area, as defined by the presiding body, will derive benefits from the proposed 
amendment. 
SECTION 4.12 | PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS  
A. 
Applicability  
In accordance with Article 67 Title 24, C.R.S., Planned Unit Development (PUD) districts may be approved 
when the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board of County Commissioners that a 
