CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-52 
2. 
There are special circumstances or conditions (such as exceptional topographic conditions, 
narrowness, shallowness, or the shape of the property) that are peculiar to the land or building for 
which the Variance is sought that do not apply generally to land or buildings in the area; 
3. 
The special circumstances and conditions that account for the need for a Variance are not the result 
of the owners’ actions; 
4. 
The special circumstances and conditions are such that the strict application of the provisions of this 
LDC would result in peculiar and practical difficulties to, and exceptional and undue hardship upon, 
the use of the land or building; 
5. 
The granting of the Variance is the minimum necessary to relieve the applicant of the practical 
difficulties and exceptional and undue hardship in the use of the land or building; and 
6. 
The granting of the Variance will not have an adverse impact upon the properties located within the 
written notification area defined in Section 3.02 D. 
E. 
Approval Criteria for Accessory Dwellings 
In evaluating the proposed request, the above criteria and all of the following criteria must be met: 
1. 
The available building area of the property, as shown on a survey or site analysis map submitted by 
the applicant, would allow the construction of the proposed accessory dwelling, including adequate 
space for a septic system and replacement septic system as required by Mesa County; 
2. 
Except for maximum size, the proposed accessory dwelling will meet all applicable requirements of 
the LDC; 
3. 
The approval of the accessory dwelling is not sought to subsequently compel or influence approval of 
an application to subdivide the property or to circumvent subdivision regulations; and 
4. 
Notice of the requirements and restrictions pertaining to the accessory dwelling will be provided to 
potential future owners by recording the variance approval resolution in the public records of the 
Mesa County Clerk and Recorder.  
F. 
Structure Height Approval Criteria 
In evaluating a proposal for a variance to the height limitations of a zone district, the request must 
demonstrate that: 
1. 
The strict application of the provisions of this LDC would result in practical difficulties to, and 
exceptional and undue hardship upon, the proposed use, and 
2. 
The proposal is compatible with features in the area such as vegetation, topography or similar 
structures and 
3. 
The proposal will not have an adverse impact upon the properties located within the written 
notification area defined in Section 3.02 D. of the Code. 
Proposals must address measures to blend the structure into the existing landscape and skyline and provide 
visual representation of such mitigation. 
G. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be made to the courts, as provided by law.  
