CHAPTER 3 | GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
3-2 
SECTION 3.02 | COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES 
Common review procedure may include up to seven (7) steps, not all of which may be applicable to each type of 
development application. 
Figure 3-1: General Summary of Common Review Procedures 
STEP
7
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
6
Planning 
Commission
Action
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
4
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
 
A. 
Pre-Application Meeting 
A Pre-Application Meeting is generally recommended but optional and intended to inform the applicant 
of applicable procedures, submittal requirements, development standards, alternatives, and other 
pertinent matters, before the applicant finalizes the development proposal.  
1. 
Application forms and checklist will be made available during Pre-Application Meetings. If additional 
information is presented or the request is found to be more complex than originally presented, a new 
checklist will be prepared and delivered to the applicant within three (3) working days of the meeting. 
2. 
Staff opinions presented during Pre-Application Meetings are informational only and do not represent 
a commitment on behalf of Mesa County regarding the acceptability of the development proposal.  
B. 
Application Submittal 
1. 
Form of Application  
Applications required under this Chapter must be submitted in a form prepared by the Director.  
2. 
Application Filing Fees  
Applications must be accompanied by the fee that has been established by the Board of County 
Commissioners. Fees are not required with applications initiated by the Board of County 
Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, Planning Commission, or County agencies. Application fees may 
be refundable at the discretion of the Director. 
3. 
Application Completeness 
An application will be considered complete if it is submitted in the required form; includes all 
mandatory information; and is accompanied by the applicable fee. A determination of application 
completeness shall be made within ten (10) working days of application filing. If an application is 
determined to be incomplete, written notice shall be provided to the applicant, along with an 
explanation of the application’s deficiencies. If the deficiencies are not corrected by the applicant 
within thirty (30) days, the application may be considered withdrawn. 
C. 
Application Review 
In conducting required reviews, the Director shall comply with those referral requirements set forth in C.R.S. 
§30-28-136.1(c), and shall be authorized to distribute the application and other submittals to County 
departments and other agencies for the purpose of soliciting comments and ensuring that the proposal 
complies with all applicable standards and requirements. Comments received from reviewers shall be 
