CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-20
b.
Off Street
(1)
No off-street parking shall be required for nonresidential uses in the MU district unless such
uses exceed two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of gross floor area, in which case
off street parking must be provided for the floor area in excess of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) square feet.
(2)
Off street parking shall be provided as described in Section 8.01: Off-Street Parking.
SECTION 5.06 | ZONING MAP 
The boundaries of the zoning districts established by this LDC are shown on a map or series of maps titled the 
“Consolidated Zoning District Map of Mesa County, Colorado,” which is to be considered a part of this LDC as fully 
as if it were set out here in detail. Original copies of the zoning district map are maintained in the Community 
Development Department. In case of any dispute regarding the zoning classification of property subject to this LDC, 
the original maps maintained by the Director will control.   
A.
Omitted Land
The zoning classification of any land that does not appear to be classified within any of the districts shown
on the zoning map shall be considered to be AF-35 if it is located in the Rural Planning Area, and RSF-E if
located in the Urban Planning Area or one of the Rural Communities where public sewer is available.
B.
District Boundaries
1.
Zoning district boundaries follow section lines; lot lines; streets; alleys; railroad right-of-way; municipal
corporation lines; special district boundaries; natural boundary lines, such as streams, or other lines to
be determined by the use of scale shown on the zoning map.
2.
When a parcel of land is divided by a zoning district boundary line at the time of enactment of this
LDC or by subsequent amendments thereto, the appropriate standards and uses for each zone shall
apply on the portion of the parcel covered by that zone.
C.
Street Vacations
Whenever any street, alley or public way is vacated by official action of the Board of County
Commissioners, the zoning district(s) of the land to which the vacated land becomes a part shall be
automatically extended to the land subject to the vacation, and all area included in the vacation will be
subject to the regulations of the extended district.
D.
Uncertainties
Where physical features existing on the ground contradict those shown on the zoning map, or in case any
other uncertainty exists regarding the boundary of zoning districts, the location of district boundaries shall
be determined by the Director based on the rules of this Section 5.06.
E.
Conflicts with Recorded Resolutions
1.
Conflicts between the zoning map and any resolution which was entered into the records of the
County Clerk and Recorder within the last ten (10) years shall be determined for correction on a case
by case basis by the Director and shall be processed as an administrative review.
2.
Where a land use was established based on a resolution entered into the records of the County Clerk
and Recorder any time in the past and has continued without interruption to the present day and a
conflict exists between the zoning map and that resolution, a determination for correction of the
zoning map shall be made on a case by case basis by the Director and shall be processed as an
administrative review.
3.
All other conflicts will be brought before the Board of County Commissioners on a case by case basis.
Some of the factors considered in determining whether the map or the resolution will control include:
a.
The date of the resolution;
b.
Reliance on the zoning map by the neighbors;
c.
Reliance on the resolution;
