CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-6 
5. 
Proposed timing and phasing of the development project;  
6. 
Provisions to mitigate the impacts of proposed development on the general public, including the 
protection of environmentally sensitive lands;  
7. 
Provisions for public benefits or improvements in excess of what is required by current County policy or 
law;  
8. 
Terms relating to applicant financing of facilities and subsequent reimbursement;  
9. 
Terms for subsequent discretionary actions, provided such terms shall not prevent the development of 
the property for the uses set forth in the agreement;  
10. A provision that construction shall begin by a specified date, or that certain phases shall be completed 
within a specified time; and 
11. Termination date for the Development Improvements Agreement.  
SECTION 4.05 | DEVELOPMENT IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENTS 
A. 
Purpose 
The County seeks to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the community by requiring a timely 
completion of the required improvements and to limit the effects of uncompleted subdivisions.  The 
Development Improvements Agreement is a requirement of the Colorado Revised Statutes.  Therefore, the 
purpose of the Development Improvements Agreement is to protect the County from assuming the cost to 
complete subdivisions and to abide by the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
B. 
Applicability  
Whenever public or common private improvements are required, the developer shall enter into a 
Development Improvements Agreement, which shall be executed and recorded with the Final Plat. Staff 
may require a Development Improvements Agreement for other types of development applications. 
C. 
Procedure  
Development Improvements Agreements shall be reviewed together with the development to which they 
relate. The Agreement shall be administered and extinguished per the provisions of the Agreement. 
D. 
Guarantees  
1. 
A Development Improvements Agreement shall be secured by one or a combination of the 
guarantees as described in the Development Improvements Agreement. Upon agreement by both 
parties, any guarantee options may be substituted for another guarantee. 
2. 
The security amount shall accurately reflect the quantities and costs of all public improvements and 
common private improvements and shall be sufficient to make reasonable provision for the 
completion of required development improvements in accordance with construction documents, 
design and time specifications. 
SECTION 4.06 | EXTINGUISHMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT 
A. 
Applicability  
This section sets out the required review and approval procedures for Extinguishment of Public Utility 
Easement. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-3 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Extinguishment of Public Utility 
Easement applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
