CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-10 
J. 
Commercial Timber Harvesting and Large Construction Projects 
1. 
Commercial Timber Harvesting 
Commercial timber harvesting on private lands (five thousand (5,000) board feet per month or more) 
shall comply with all State Forest Service best management practices guidelines and the following 
restrictions in Section 6.02 J.3. below. 
2. 
Large Construction Projects 
Any project hauling four thousand five hundred (4,500) tons of material or more within a one (1) month 
time frame is subject to the restrictions in Section 6.02 J.3. below. 
3. 
Restrictions 
Restrictions on the use of County roads may be required by the Public Works Director in terms of size 
of vehicles; allowable hours and days of use; number of vehicles per given time period (i.e., hour, day, 
week, month), and other conditions necessary to protect the integrity and condition of county roads. 
K. 
Group Living  
Group living facilities shall be subject to the standards listed below:  
1. 
Twenty-four (24) hour supervision shall be provided by qualified staff at all group living facilities. 
2. 
The number of residents occupying a group living facility at any one time, including staff   and family 
of staff, shall not exceed one (1) person per two hundred (200) square feet of living space. 
3. 
The number of residents residing in a group living facility shall be as follows: 
a. 
Small group living facility – a group living facility with five (5) to nine (9) residents. 
b. 
Large group living facility – a group living facility with ten (10) or more residents. 
4. 
All group living facilities should be located near or provide access to; grocery and other retail stores 
and commercial services, public transportation, medical and emergency services, and public 
recreation facilities. 
5. 
Group living structures shall be compatible with the character of the surrounding   neighborhood. 
6. 
The proposed facility must obtain all state licenses as required pursuant to Colorado   Statutes. 
7. 
If located in a rural or urban residential zone district, the facility shall not be located within seven 
hundred fifty (750) feet of another such facility, measured by the shortest distance between property 
lines of each facility. 
L. 
Hazardous Material Facility  
No hazardous material facility shall be located:  
1. 
Further than one-quarter (1/4) mile from the nearest right-of-way line of US Interstate Highway 70 or US 
Highways 6 or 50; or  
2. 
Where the most direct driving route from the hazardous material facility to the nearest listed highway 
passes through an Urban Residential Zoning District. Where a hazardous substance user is currently 
operating, no land within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the most direct driving route from the hazardous 
substance user to the nearest listed highway shall be rezoned to an Urban Residential Zoning District. 
On-farm agricultural chemical users are exempt from this subsection. 
M. 
Junk Yards, Salvage Yards, Heavy Equipment, Industrial, and Outdoor Storage  
1. 
The following standards shall apply to all approved junk yards, salvage yards, heavy equipment, 
industrial and outdoor storage yards. Additional standards may be required as deemed necessary by 
the Planning Director and/or Board of County Commissioners: 
a. 
Such uses shall be screened with an opaque wall or fence with a minimum height of six (6) feet. 
An exception to constructing a fence or wall may be granted when natural terrain and/or 
vegetation will adequately screen the use. 
