CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-29
impossible, in which case the Director may approve an adjustment up to thirty (30) percent. 
Pastures are not considered confined areas. 
(1)
On parcels of land less than one-half (1/2) acre in size in the urban zoning districts, chickens
and rabbits that are kept outside the residence shall be allowed under the following
conditions:
(a)
No more than six (6) chickens or six (6) rabbits over two (2) months old, or any
combination of the two animals, are allowed per dwelling unit. No other domestic
livestock or fowl shall be permitted.
(b)
For properties that have an accessory dwelling unit, each unit shall be permitted to
have up to six (6) animals, for a total of twelve (12) animals total on the property.
(c)
Chickens and/or rabbits shall not be permitted on properties with duplexes or multi-
family dwellings.
(d)
No roosters are allowed.
(e)
All animals shall be confined by a fence, cage, or pen. Appropriate shelter shall be
provided.
(f)
Animals shall be kept no closer than twenty (20) feet from rear and side property lines
whenever there is an existing residential use on the adjoining property.
(g)
There shall be no confinement of animals in the front setback area.
(h)
The coop, hutch, cage, pen, and/or area where the animals are confined shall be
kept in a clean condition so that any offensive smell and human health issues are
minimized. Food supplies shall be secured in animal-proof containers to deter
nuisance animals and vermin.
(2)
Existing Properties in Rural Land Use Areas
On properties designated for rural land uses on the adopted Future Land Use Plan Map, the
following criteria apply:
(a)
No new domestic livestock pens, fenced corrals, round pens, turnout areas, buildings,
or other confined areas for keeping domestic livestock shall be located nearer than
one hundred (100) feet from dwellings existing on adjacent lots or parcels of land.
(b)
No new dwellings shall be constructed nearer than one hundred (100) feet from
existing domestic livestock pens, fenced corrals, round pens, turnout areas, buildings
or other confined areas for keeping domestic livestock on adjacent lots or parcels of
land unless this requirement effectively renders the property unbuildable; in which
case the Director may approve an adjustment up to thirty (30) percent.
(c)
Pastures are not considered confined areas.
 Any agricultural operation or practice that is historical, traditional, legitimate, and 
reasonable shall be protected. Any new or expanded agricultural operation or practice 
that is legitimate and reasonable shall be encouraged, as established in the “Right to Farm 
and Ranch” policy. 
(3)
Confinement of Domestic Livestock
On any parcel of land under ten (10) acres in size, all domestic livestock shall be confined,
fenced, or controlled by the property owner in such a manner that prevents the animal or
fowl from running or being at large.
4.
Allowed Animal Units per Acre
For parcels of land one half (1/2) acre or larger in size: calculations are based on animal units times
the suitable area available for the keeping of domestic livestock (i.e. lot area minus areas used for
dwellings, access, residential and accessory uses, areas where the keeping of animals are not
permitted or are unsuited for use, etc.)
