CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-1 
CHAPTER 4 | ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
SECTION 4.01 | ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUSTMENT 
A. 
Applicability  
This section sets out the required review and approval procedures for Administrative Adjustments, which 
are modifications of up to fifty (50) percent of any dimensional standard set out in Chapter 5 and Chapter 
7, except those related to building height, residential density, or nonresidential intensity. Any other proposed 
modification, or any request the Director determines should be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment, shall 
be processed as a Zoning Variance as outlined under Section 4.22. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-1 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Administrative Adjustment 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-1: Summary of the Administrative Adjustment Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
C. 
Approval Criteria  
In evaluating the proposed request, all of the following criteria must be met: 
1. 
The request will have no significant adverse impact on the health, safety or general welfare of the 
surrounding properties or the general public, or any adverse impacts will be mitigated to the maximum 
extent practical;  
2. 
There are special circumstances or conditions that are peculiar to the land or building for which the 
request is sought that do not apply generally to land or buildings in the area; 
3. 
The strict application of the provisions of this LDC would result in peculiar and practical difficulties in 
the use of the land or building; and 
4. 
The request is the minimum necessary to relieve the applicant of the peculiar and practical difficulties 
in the use of the land or building. 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.01 C. The decision shall be in 
writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
