CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-34 
hundred (500) pounds or the TPQ listed (whichever is lower) for the 356 chemicals listed 
under 40 C.F.R. § 302 (2010), also known as Extremely Hazardous Substances (EHS); or ten 
thousand (10,000) pounds for any other chemical. This threshold is consistent with the 
requirements for reportable chemicals established by the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment. OSHA requirements for MSDS can be found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910 
(2010). The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulation “Designation, Reportable 
Quantities, and Notification,” 40 C.F.R. § 302 (2010) and OSHA regulation “Occupational 
Safety and Health Standards,” 29 C.F.R. § 1910 (2010) are incorporated herein by reference 
and include the regulations in existence at the time of the promulgation this ordinance, but 
exclude later amendments to or editions of the regulations.  
(a) Specific exemptions to this category include: 
(i) 
Finished consumer products within retail centers and households containing 
hazardous materials intended for household use, and agricultural products 
intended for agricultural use.  
(ii) 
Buildings and other structures containing hazardous materials for which it can be 
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the local authority having jurisdiction by 
hazard assessment and certification by a qualified professional (as determined 
by the local jurisdiction having land use authority) that a release of the subject 
hazardous material does not pose a major threat to the public.  
(iii) Pharmaceutical sales, use, storage, and distribution centers that do not 
manufacture pharmaceutical products.  
(b) These exemptions shall not apply to buildings or other structures that also function as 
Critical Facilities under another category outlined in this Section.  
c. 
At-risk population facilities include medical care, congregate care, and schools. These facilities 
consist of: 
(1) 
Elder care (nursing homes);  
(2) 
Congregate care serving twelve (12) or more individuals (day care and assisted living);  
(3) 
Public and private schools (pre-schools, K-12 schools), before-school and after-school care 
serving twelve (12) or more children);  
d. 
Facilities vital to restoring normal services including government operations. These facilities consist 
of: 
(1) 
Essential government operations (public records, courts, jails, building permitting and 
inspection services, community administration and management, maintenance and 
equipment centers);  
(2) 
Essential structures for public colleges and universities (dormitories, offices, and classrooms 
only).  
These facilities may be exempted if it is demonstrated to Mesa County that the facility is an 
element of a redundant system for which service will not be interrupted during a flood. At a 
minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant facilities are available (either owned by the 
same entity or available through an intergovernmental agreement or other contract), the 
alternative facilities are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with 
this ordinance, and an operations plan is in effect that states how redundant facilities will provide 
service to the affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing redundancy shall be 
provided to Mesa County on an as-needed basis upon request. 
3. 
Protection for Critical Facilities 
All new and substantially improved Critical Facilities and new additions to Critical Facilities located 
within the Special Flood Hazard Area shall be regulated to a higher standard than structures not 
determined to be Critical Facilities. For the purposes of this ordinance, protection shall include one of 
the following: 
