CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
9-6 
signs on the property reviewed and approved as part of the development plan. Variance of the maximum total 
surface area of signs shall not be permitted, but the maximum sign allowance for the entire development or use 
may be aggregated and the total allowance redistributed. 
SECTION 9.11 | OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS 
A maximum of one (1) outdoor advertising sign, erected on the ground or affixed to a wall shall be allowed per 
parcel of land in the C-2, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts, subject to the following conditions: 
A. 
Height Limitations  
No outdoor advertising sign shall be erected higher than forty (40) feet above the level of the street or road 
upon which the sign faces, or above the adjoining ground level if such ground level is above the street or 
road level. No outdoor advertising sign shall have a surface or facing exceeding three hundred (300) 
square feet in area or containing less than fifteen (15) square feet in area. Off-premise signs shall not be 
denied permits because of maximum size limitations for on-premise signs on the same parcel. 
B. 
Distance  
For each square foot of surface or facing of the sign, two (2) feet of space from adjacent outdoor 
advertising signs shall be maintained. Such distances shall be determined by using the largest sign as 
criterion. For example, no sign can be erected closer than six hundred (600) feet to an existing three 
hundred (300) square foot sign. 
C. 
Illumination 
Outdoor advertising signs that are illuminated by indirect or external illumination shall use only downward 
facing, downcast light to confine direct light beams to the sign and out of the direct vision. 
SECTION 9.12 | REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF SIGNS 
A. 
Maintenance and Repair  
1. 
No person shall retain on any premises owned or controlled by them, any sign which is in a dangerous 
or defective condition. The Director shall require the removal or repair of any sign by the owner of the 
sign or the owner of the premises upon which it is located. In cases of immediate danger to the public 
due to the defective nature of a sign, the Director may cause the immediate removal of the sign and 
may assess the costs of the removal against the owner of the property. 
2. 
The appearance and safety of all signs shall be maintained by the replacement of all defective parts 
and by periodic painting, repainting, cleaning and other acts required for proper maintenance. 
B. 
Abandoned Signs  
1. 
Signs are allowed on otherwise vacant property so long as a permit is obtained (unless a permit is 
otherwise expressly not required) and so long as the sign allowance for the zone district is adhered to. 
However, a sign structure that has no content or is “blank” and has fallen into disrepair and which is 
located on property which is unoccupied for a period of 12 consecutive months or more shall be 
deemed abandoned. 
2. 
An abandoned sign is prohibited; the owner of the sign or the owner of the premises shall remove the 
sign and supporting structure. An abandoned sign which is not removed in a timely manner may be 
removed by the Director under the provisions of this section. 
