CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-44 
Stormwater Management Manual, when applicable. 
C. 
Applicability 
1. 
The regulations of this Chapter shall apply to all lands designated as an urbanized area according to 
the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.  
2. 
No new development or redevelopment, which disturbs one (1) acre or more of land and disturbs less 
than one (1) acre but is part of a larger common plan of development, shall hereafter be allowed 
without full compliance with the terms of this regulation, the Mesa County Stormwater Management 
Manual, and other applicable regulations of the Land Development Code. 
3. 
Disturbance includes any activity that disturbs the soil on the site, including: grading, clearing, 
excavation activities, areas receiving overburden (e.g. stockpiles), demolition areas, and areas with 
equipment/vehicle traffic and storage that disturb vegetative cover. 
D. 
Interpretation 
In the interpretation and application of these stormwater regulations, all provisions shall be considered as 
minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the County, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal 
any other powers granted under State statutes. 
E. 
Warning and Disclaimer of Liability 
The degree of water quality protection intended to be provided by this Section is considered reasonable 
for regulatory purposes and is based upon the engineering and scientific methods of Construction 
Stormwater Management Plan and the Drainage Report. This Section shall not create any liability on the 
part of, or a cause of action against the Mesa County Board of Commissioners or any officer or employee 
thereof, for any water quality damages that may result from reliance on this regulation or any administrative 
decision lawfully made thereunder. 
F. 
Nonconformities 
The existing lawful use of a structure or premises that does not comply with the stormwater regulations of 
this Section, may be continued. If the property is redeveloped, and disturbs an acre of land or less than 
one (1) acre but is part of a larger common plan of development, activities must conform with this Section. 
G. 
Stormwater Construction Permit Conditions 
The Stormwater Administrator shall require that the requirements of Section 1506.1 of the Stormwater 
Management Manual be adhered to. This Section covers the requirements of inspections, reporting, and 
changes to the Construction Stormwater Management Plan. 
SECTION 8.23 | INTERIM DEVELOPMENT POLICIES 
A. 
Findings 
The Board of County Commissioners may adopt by resolution Interim Development Policies, stipulating 
development standards and uses for properties in specific areas prior to availability of infrastructure and 
services. The purpose of interim development policies is to allow land owners some development potential 
while ensuring that development does not occur that cannot be adequately served by water, sewer, roads 
and other appropriate services and infrastructure.  
B. 
Applicability to Development  
All development within an area subject to an Interim Development Policy shall be required to meet all 
applicable standards and limitations set forth in the Policy. 
C. 
Effect on Future Development 
New development in an area subject to an Interim Development Policy shall be designed in a manner so 
as not to interfere with future development or redevelopment consistent with the Future Land Uses and 
Goals, Policies and Objectives of the Mesa County Master Plan. 
1. 
As a condition of approval of any development in an area planned for urban development, a note 
will be placed on the site plan indicating that urban uses are planned for the subject property in the 
future as designated on the adopted Future Land Use Plan Map and referencing the adopted Policy 
Resolution number.  
