CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-42 
b. 
The construction of accessory buildings or structures; 
c. 
The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or structure with a new building 
or structure of the same size and use; 
d. 
The installation of a replacement manufactured home on a lot or other parcel when a fee in lieu 
of land dedication for such manufactured home has previously been paid pursuant to this 
Section or where a residential manufactured home legally existed on such site on or before the 
effective date of this Section;  
e. 
Nonresidential buildings, nonresidential structures, or nonresidential manufactured homes; 
f. 
Nursing homes, Adult Foster Care Facilities, or Specialized Group Facilities; 
g. 
County approved Residential Developments that are subject to recorded covenants restricting 
the age of the residents pursuant to the Federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988; and 
h. 
Residential construction on unsubdivided land. 
5. 
Credits 
a. 
An applicant for a development permit (or a holder of such a permit) who owns other Suitable 
School Lands within the same School District in which the development is located may offer to 
convey such lands to such district in exchange for credit against all or portion of the SLD fees 
otherwise due or to become due. the offer must be in writing, specifically request credit against 
fees in lieu of SLD, and set forth the amount of credit requested. If the County and the School 
District in which the development is located accept such offer, the credit shall be in the amount 
of the value of the Suitable School Lands conveyed, as determined by written agreement 
between the County, the School District and the permit holder or applicant.  
b. 
Credit against SLD fees otherwise due or to become due will not be provided until good and 
sufficient title to the property offered under this subsection is conveyed to and accepted by the 
School District in which the development is located. Upon such conveyance, the School District 
in which the development is located, and the County, shall provide the applicant with a letter or 
certificate setting forth the dollar amount of the credit, the reason for the credit, and a 
description of the project or development to which the credit shall be applied.  
c. 
Credits shall not be transferable from one project or development to another. 
6. 
Refund of Fees Paid 
a. 
Any SLD fee which has not been expended by a School District within five years of the date of 
collection shall be refunded, with interest at the rate of five (5) percent per annum compounded 
annually, to the current owner of the land for which the fee was paid. Prior to such refund, such 
amount shall be reduced by an amount equal to two (2) percent of the principal amount to be 
refunded, for the costs incurred by the County in the refund of such fee. The County shall give 
written notice by first class mail to the person who paid the fee at his or her address as reflected 
in the records of the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder. If such person does not file a written claim 
for such refund with the County within ninety (90) days of the mailing of such notice, such refund 
shall be forfeited and shall be retained and used for the purposes set forth in this Section 8.20. 
b. 
The Board may, upon a School District’s request, extend the 5-year period of time upon a showing 
that such extension is reasonably necessary in order for the School District to complete or close a 
purchase transaction entered into in writing by such district prior to expiration of such period, or 
to give such district an opportunity to exercise a purchase option it acquired prior to expiration 
of such period. Such request shall be made at a public hearing of the Board. In no event shall 
any extension of time exceed an additional 5-year period.  
SECTION 8.21 | FEES IN LIEU OF IMPROVEMENTS 
A. 
Escrow of Funds in Lieu of Improvements  
When specific public improvements are required by the Board of County Commissioners and/or identified 
in the County's Capital Investment Program and/or any adopted Transportation Plan, a fee (based on the 
