CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-17 
In addition to other requirements of this LDC, each applicant for a Tower or Telecommunication 
Facility shall provide the Director with an inventory of all of the applicant's existing Tower(s) and/or 
Telecommunication Facility(ies) or approved sites for the facilities. 
(1) 
A vicinity map specific to the application from the County’s zoning map drawn to scale, 
showing land uses and zoning designation of all uses within a quarter (1/4) of a mile. 
(2) 
A computer-generated visual analysis from all adjacent rights-of-way, showing the 
relationship of the tower/facility to the topography and other spatial relationships deemed 
necessary or required by the decision maker to assess compliance with the Code.  If there 
are more than four (4) such rights-of-way, the Decision Maker shall designate which rights-
of-way shall be analyzed.  
(3) 
A description of the tower/facility's capacity which declares the number and type(s) of 
antennae(s) that it can accommodate or an explanation why their facility cannot be 
designated to accommodate other users. 
(4) 
An agreement retained by the County which commits the facility owner and its successors 
to allow shared use of the facility if additional users agree in writing to the reasonable terms 
and conditions of shared use.  The applicant shall annually report to the Director the names, 
addresses, and telephone numbers of every inquiry for co-location, and the status of any 
such inquiry. 
(5) 
The applicant shall provide evidence of mailed notice of a proposed tower or 
telecommunication facility to all abutting property owners within four (4) times the distance 
that the tower or facility is tall, or five hundred (500) feet, whichever is greater, and to any 
neighborhood association that would be entitled to notice under this LDC.  
(6) 
Any other information as required by the Decision Maker to evaluate the request, especially 
technical information.  
j. 
Public and Utility Structures    
A tower or telecommunication facility mounted on existing structures of public utilities which have 
a franchise or other written permission from the County to use concealed towers/ 
telecommunication facilities are permitted in all non-residential zoning districts, unless otherwise 
specified by this LDC. The Decision Maker may approve the placement, extension, or 
replacement of a Tower or Telecommunication Facility on an existing public utility structure up to 
fifty (50) feet above the highest point on the same. The Decision Maker may waive public notice 
and may waive any other submission requirement if he deems that the public interest will not be 
harmed. 
k. 
Design, Materials, and Color  
Towers and telecommunication facilities shall be designed and maintained: to minimize visual 
impact; to carry gravity loads, and wind loads with safety measures as required by applicable 
regulations including adopted building codes; use concealment or stealth methods, such as 
camouflaging towers to look like light poles or trees, if at all possible; if co-located, to match the 
color, shape, and look of the structure or facility to which they are attached; to use only non-
specular materials.  
In order to be considered a concealed tower or telecommunication facility, the tower or 
telecommunication facility shall: 
(1) 
Be architecturally integrated with existing buildings, structures and landscaping, 
including 
height, color, style, massing, placement, design, and  shape; 
(2) 
Be located to avoid a silhouette and preserve view corridors to the east and the west of the 
Grand Mesa and the Colorado National Monument, as determined from viewing the tower 
or facility from anywhere within the original square mile of the City of Grand Junction;  
(3) 
Be located on existing vertical infrastructure such as utility poles and public buildings or utility 
structures; 
