CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-24 
2. 
Alternative Fire Protection Plan 
Whenever installation of fire hydrants is not practical, as determined by the responsible fire chief, the 
applicant shall agree to an alternative fire protection plan. Applicants for any type of development 
that is not required to install fire hydrants pursuant to Section 8.10 shall also agree to an alternative fire 
protection plan. 
a. 
Alternatives 
An alternative fire protection plan may include, but not be limited to, providing on-site fire flows, 
or installing sprinklers within proposed structures. Water may be supplied by a natural water body, 
or by man-made facilities, such as a cistern, above ground tank, or man-made water body, 
provided the supply is available year-round.  
b. 
Review by Fire Chief 
The alternative fire protection plan shall only be allowed when the responsible fire chief 
determines it will afford the same level of fire protection to the proposed development as would 
strict compliance with the fire flow standards of this Section, or will comply with the adopted fire 
code of the district or volunteer fire department. 
c. 
Accessibility 
The location of the alternative firefighting supply and fire protection facilities shall be easily 
accessible to fire protection personnel and vehicles and shall be identified with a visible sign.  
d. 
Fitting and Connections 
All fittings and connections to the fire hydrants or to the alternative water supply shall be provided 
by the applicant, and shall be compatible with specifications established by the applicable 
district. 
D. 
Roads and Driveways 
Roads and driveways shall be designed to comply with the standards in the Mesa County Standard 
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, its appendix, the Road Access Policy, the Land 
Development Code and the Fire Apparatus Access Roads section of the International Fire Code, as may 
be amended. Shared driveways over one hundred fifty (150) feet in length shall also meet the standards 
listed in the most recently adopted Fire Code in regards to width, grade, turn radius for curves and 
turnaround standards.  
1. 
Access Points 
Developments containing one or two family dwellings where the number of dwelling units exceeds 
thirty (30), shall provide two separate and approved fire apparatus access roads.  
a. 
An exception may be granted where more than thirty (30) dwelling units are proposed on an 
approved single public or private fire apparatus access road if all dwelling units are equipped 
with approved automatic sprinkler system. An alternative to the exception above may be 
approved if the responsible fire chief determines the alternative will afford the same level of fire 
protection to the proposed development as would strict compliance with this LDC. 
SECTION 8.11 | WASTEWATER  
A. 
Service by Grand Junction–Mesa County Wastewater Collection and Treatment System  
Any development located within the Persigo Wastewater Treatment Plant Service Area shall be required to 
connect to the Grand Junction-Mesa County Wastewater Collection and Treatment System if a major 
sewer line exists or is built within four hundred (400) feet of any part of the property on which the 
development occurs, as measured via any public right-of-way or utility easement. If Onsite Wastewater 
Treatment Systems are to be utilized by a development on a temporary basis, such use must be in 
conformity with all County and State Health Department laws and regulations. An estimate of the funds 
necessary to cover the cost of such a connection shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer and 
certified as adequate by the City or County Engineer. The funds shall be placed in escrow by the applicant 
