CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-5 
2. 
The number of dwelling units does not increase; 
3. 
All construction is in compliance with current construction codes, such as the fire and building codes 
and other applicable regulations; 
4. 
A building permit must be obtained within one (1) year from the date of the damage;  
5. 
The certificate of occupancy (or other final inspection) must be issued within two (2) years of the 
issuance of the building permit; and 
6. 
Deadlines for obtaining a permit and completing construction may be extended by the Director for 
up to one (1) year if the work is subject to delays caused by litigation, settlement of insurance claims, 
weather, or other conditions related to the loss beyond the applicant’s control. 
C. 
Relocation  
Nonconforming structures shall not be moved unless the movement or relocation will bring the structure 
into compliance or closer to compliance with applicable dimensional standards. 
SECTION 10.04 | NONCONFORMING LOTS  
A. 
Uses  
A parcel of land with an area or other dimension less than prescribed in the applicable zone may be used 
for any purpose permitted in the zoning district if: 
1. 
 The owner is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the parcel was lawful at the 
time it was created; 
2. 
No reasonable alternative exists to make the nonconforming lot conforming, such as the addition of 
adjoining land under the property owner’s control; and 
3. 
The use meets all other regulations prescribed for the zoning district prior to occupancy or use. 
B. 
Vacant Lots  
Vacant nonconforming lots may be developed with uses permitted in the underlying zoning district, 
provided that they comply with the minimum setback standards of this LDC. If the underlying zoning district 
allows a variety of uses and one or more uses and intensities that would comply with applicable lot area, 
lot width, or other dimensional and development standards while others would not, then only the uses or 
intensities that comply with applicable dimensional standards shall be permitted. 
C. 
Developed Lots  
If a developed nonconforming lot is occupied by a building or structure, then the owner may continue the 
use of that building or structure in any way that does not increase the extent of nonconformity. An increase 
in building size shall not be deemed to increase the extent of nonconformity unless it encroaches into a 
required minimum setback, exceeds the maximum allowed height or otherwise violates a required zoning 
district intensity, density, dimensional, or development standard. 
D. 
Dimensional Standards  
Development on nonconforming lots shall comply with the dimensional standards of the underlying zoning 
district.  If the owner is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that there would not be 
sufficient area to build a structure on a nonconforming lot in compliance with the dimensional standards, 
the following alternative setbacks may be used:  
1. 
Interior Side and Rear Setbacks 
 The minimum interior side and rear setback shall be permitted to be three (3) feet. 
2. 
Street Setbacks 
 The minimum street setback shall be permitted to be twenty (20) percent of the lot depth. 
