CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-35 
a. 
Location outside the Special Flood Hazard Area; or 
b. 
Elevation or floodproofing of the structure to at least two (2) feet above the Base Flood Elevation. 
4. 
Ingress and Egress for New Critical Facilities 
New Critical Facilities shall, when practicable as determined by Mesa County, have continuous non-
inundated access (ingress and egress for evacuation and emergency services) during a 100-year 
flood event. 
SECTION 8.15 | TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSES (TIA) 
A. 
Traffic Impact Analysis Thresholds  
A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be required to be submitted with applications for development review when 
trip generation is expected to exceed one hundred (100) peak hour trips, based on traffic generation 
estimates of the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ Trip Generation manual, unless local trip generation 
data demonstrate a higher trip rate. A TIA is also required for: 
1. 
Any project that proposes access to a street with Level of Service (LOS) “D” or below; 
2. 
Any case in which the original TIA is more than two years old, or where increased land use intensity will 
result in an increase in traffic generation by more than fifteen (15) percent or an increase of directional 
distribution of traffic by more than twenty (20) percent. 
B. 
Traffic Impact Analysis Guidelines  
Guidelines for TIAs are found in Article VII of the Mesa County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge 
Construction. Traffic Impact Analyses must be prepared by a registered professional engineer with 
experience in Transportation Engineering. A statement of qualifications shall accompany all Traffic Impact 
Analysis submittals. 
SECTION 8.16 | STREET ACCESS  
A. 
Access to Public Roads  
All new lots/parcels shall have direct or indirect access (no street frontage) to a maintained public road. If 
indirect access is proposed then access easements shall be identified. Easements shall be of sufficient width 
to provide for fire access, utility installation and drainage improvements.  
B. 
Driveways  
Driveway access to collector and arterial streets shall be discouraged. Standards shall be as described in 
the Mesa County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, its appendix, the Road Access 
Policy, the Land Development Code and the International Fire Code, as may be amended. 
C. 
Common Driveways 
A driveway that provides access to a public street or road within the rural or urban zoning districts serving 
two (2) residential lots meeting the following design standards: 
1. 
A common driveway shall be at least twelve (12) feet wide and be located in an access easement 
at least sixteen (16) feet wide.  
2. 
Common driveways shall be surfaced with a stable material; such as, but not limited to asphalt, 
reprocessed asphalt, concrete, brick, cobblestone, or Class 6 aggregate six (6) inches thick. 
3. 
If the common driveway is over one hundred fifty (150) feet in length, pullouts shall be required every 
one hundred (100) feet to allow vehicles to pass.  
D. 
Loop Lane  
Driveways that provide access to a public street or road within the urban zoning districts must meet the 
following design standards: 
1. 
The surface of the loop lane shall be a minimum of fourteen (14) feet wide, edge of pavement to 
edge of pavement. The lane may need to be a one-way lane and parking may not be allowed on 
