CHAPTER 3 | GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
3-5 
conditions, or denied.  
2. 
Applications 
Subject 
to 
Community 
Development 
Director 
or 
Stormwater 
Administrator 
Recommendation 
a. 
If the application is subject to final decision by another decision-making body per Table 3-1, the 
Director or the Stormwater Administrator shall prepare a written staff report. The staff report shall 
state whether or not the application complies with all requirements and shall include a 
recommendation. 
b. 
The Director or Stormwater Administrator shall forward the completed request, staff report, 
recommendation, and any related materials to the decision-making body.  
F. 
Planning Commission Action 
1. 
Applications Subject to Planning Commission Decision 
a. 
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with this LDC and the 
Planning Commission bylaws. 
b. 
If an application is subject to final decision by the Planning Commission per Table 3-1, the 
Planning Commission shall consider the application, applicable review criteria, support material, 
staff report, and any evidence and/or comments from the public hearing. 
c. 
The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. 
2. 
Applications Subject to Planning Commission Recommendation 
a. 
The Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting to review the application based on the 
applicable review criteria. The Planning Commission shall then make a recommendation to the 
Board of County Commissioners to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. 
b. 
Following Planning Commission review, the Director shall forward the completed request and any 
related materials, including the Planning Commission recommendation, to the Board of County 
Commissioners for final action. 
G. 
Board of County Commissioners Action 
1. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing in accordance with this LDC. 
2. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall consider the application, applicable review criteria, support 
material, Planning Commission recommendation (if applicable) staff report, and any evidence and/or 
comments from the public hearing. 
3. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. 
The Board of County Commissioners may also remand the application back to the Director, the 
Stormwater Administrator, or the Planning Commission, whichever is applicable, for further review. 
H. 
Board of Adjustment Action 
1. 
The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing in accordance with this LDC and Board of 
Adjustment bylaws. 
2. 
The Board of Adjustment shall consider the application, applicable review criteria, support material, 
staff report, and any evidence and/or comments from the public hearing. 
3. 
The Board of Adjustment shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. 
I. 
Floodplain Board of Appeals Action 
1. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing in accordance with this LDC and 
Floodplain Board of Appeals bylaws. 
2. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall consider the application, applicable review criteria, support 
material, staff report, and any evidence and/or comments from the public hearing. 
3. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. 
