CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-5 
2. 
Substantial deviations 
Substantial deviations shall include but not be limited to the following: 
a. 
A change in the boundaries of the approved site; 
b. 
An increase greater than ten (10) percent in the approved floor area; 
c. 
Significant change in the location of principal or accessory structures; 
d. 
Significant structural alterations affecting the appearance of principal or accessory structures as 
shown on the approved site plan; 
e. 
Significant change in pedestrian or vehicular access or circulation; and 
f. 
Significant change in the amount or location of landscape and screening. 
3. 
If a proposed amendment deviates substantially from the approved conditional use permit, the 
approved conditional use permit shall be amended in accordance with the procedure and standards 
which governed its approval. 
E. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided by 
law. 
SECTION 4.04 | DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS 
A. 
Purpose  
In connection with any development approval, the Board of County Commissioners shall be authorized to 
enter into a Development Agreement with the applicant. Development Agreements may include 
provisions clarifying the phasing of construction, the timing, location and financing of infrastructure, 
reimbursement for oversized infrastructure, vesting of property rights for periods of between three (3) and 
ten (10) years, assurances that adequate public facilities (including roads, water, sewer, fire protection, 
and emergency medical services), will be available as they are needed to serve the development, and 
mitigation of anticipated impacts of the development on the general public. 
B. 
Review Criteria  
Any proposed Development Agreement shall be reviewed by applicable Review and Decision-Making 
Bodies at the same time that the Rezoning, Major Subdivision, or Planned Unit Development is reviewed. 
Review Bodies shall have the same power to make recommendations regarding the proposed 
Development Agreement as they do for the related development approval. Procedures for review and 
approval of Development Agreements shall be the same as for the related development approval. In 
reviewing and acting upon proposed Development Agreements, Review and Decision Making Bodies shall 
consider the Approval Criteria for the development application, and the following additional criteria: 
1. 
Whether the benefit of the Development Agreement to the County outweighs its costs; 
2. 
Whether the Development Agreement is required to mitigate impacts that would otherwise make the 
proposed development unacceptable; and 
3. 
Whether the County has received adequate assurances that the development will go forward as 
planned in return for any vesting of property rights beyond the statutory three (3) year vesting period. 
C. 
Contents  
Development Agreements may, without limitation, contain the following: 
1. 
Descriptions of the acceptable and prohibited uses on the property;  
2. 
The density of proposed uses, including maximum floor area and height of buildings;  
3. 
Provisions for the reservation or dedication of land for public purposes;  
4. 
Proposed schedule for the construction of public improvements, and assurances that public 
improvements will be available as needed to serve new development; 
