CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-21 
Residential developments proposed on properties designated for urban land uses on the adopted 
Future Land Use Plan Map shall be designed to maintain a separation of one hundred (100) feet 
between proposed new residences and pens, fenced corrals, legal buildings or other confined areas 
used to keep domestic livestock that exist on adjacent lots or parcels at the time of the initial 
application for development. Pastures are exempt from this requirement. Such residential 
developments may substitute any of the following measures for the one hundred (100) feet distance 
requirement:  
a. 
Construction of a six (6) foot high opaque wall or fence along the entire length of the common 
property boundary of the proposed lots that border the property(ies) on which the domestic 
livestock pens, corrals, buildings or other confined areas are less than one hundred (100) feet 
from proposed residences.  The wall or fence must have a subsurface barrier that will prevent 
dogs from digging underneath. The proposed development is designed so that residential lots do 
not adjoin domestic livestock pens, corrals, buildings or other confined areas. Improvements that 
may be placed adjacent to these areas instead of residential lots include non-habitable areas 
such as, but not limited to: 
(1) 
Road right-of-way, 
(2) 
Detention facilities,  
(3) 
Common area, and 
(4) 
Flagpole portions only of new residential lots; 
(5) 
Improvements such as items 1 through 4 above must be a minimum width of twenty (20) 
feet.  
b. 
The applicant for the residential development may present an agreement with the domestic 
livestock property owner which addresses the impacts of the proposed development on the 
adjacent domestic livestock pens, corrals, buildings or other confined areas for such time as the 
domestic livestock confinement areas exist. Such agreement must be incorporated into 
subdivision covenants when appropriate. 
c. 
In cases where the applicant has demonstrated that above options are not feasible under the 
circumstances, the applicant for the residential development may present another solution that 
meets the intent of the options within this Section 8.07 G.4. and has an equal or greater effect. 
3. 
If the domestic livestock and agricultural use ceases on land adjacent to the residential development, 
Section 8.07 G. regarding protection of agricultural lands will no longer apply to either proposed or 
previously approved residential development adjacent to that land. 
4. 
See Section 6.04 B.3. Domestic Livestock for additional information. 
H. 
Right to Hunt 
The following notice shall be recorded on approved site plans and/or plats when the notice is applicable: 
”NOTICE OF TRADITIONAL HUNTING ACTIVITIES 
This property is potentially within an area which is traditionally hunted; therefore noise and activity 
associated with lawful hunting and people moving through the area to hunt is normal and may be 
expected.” 
SECTION 8.08 | DRAINAGE 
Drainage facilities shall be designed and installed in accordance with the Mesa County Stormwater Management 
Manual. 
SECTION 8.09 | POTABLE WATER  
A. 
General  
New development shall provide an adequate, domestic, potable water supply that is sufficient in terms of 
quality, quantity, and dependability for the proposed development. In making its determination as to 
