CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-11 
(2) Parking lot islands must be at least one hundred forty (140) square feet; 
(3) A parking lot island is required at the end of every row of parking spaces, regardless of length 
or number of spaces; and 
(4) In lieu of the standard parking lot island, one “orchard style” island may be used for every six 
parking spaces. The orchard style islands shall be evenly spaced between end parking lot 
islands.  
(5) One divider island, parallel to the parking lot drive aisles shall be located for every three (3) 
parking lot drive aisles. 
(6) Parking lot islands, orchard style islands and divider islands should include shrubs and trees. 
Shrubs shall be maintained at thirty (30) inches or lower where visibility of oncoming vehicles 
is a concern. Tree canopies shall be maintained no lower than six (6) feet above grade. 
Landscaping is not required when a parking lot island is used as a pedestrian refuge island. 
A maximum of one third (1/3) of the required parking lot islands may be used as pedestrian 
refuge islands. 
2. 
Parking Lot Perimeter 
Perimeter parking lot landscaping shall include a wall, fence, planter, earthen berm, plant material or 
a combination of such elements and shall meet the following standards:  
a. 
 The minimum dimension allowed for the parking lot perimeter landscape strip is six (6) feet. The 
width of a landscape strip can be modified by the Director, provided the intent of this Section is 
met. 
b. 
Where two or more adjacent parking lots are shared and designed to function as one, perimeter 
landscaping is only required around the perimeter of the combined lots. 
c. 
When utilities conflict with required planting, the applicant shall propose an alternate solution. 
C. 
Street Frontage 
With the exception of single-family and two-family residential lots, street frontages shall be landscaped with 
trees and plantings giving consideration to historic or vernacular character of the location, continuity with 
native vegetation and the natural landscape, and with the ability to provide water for irrigation.  
1. 
All new development shall provide and maintain a minimum fourteen (14) foot wide street frontage 
landscape area adjacent to the public right-of-way. 
2. 
A minimum of seventy-five (75) percent of the street frontage landscape area shall be covered by 
plant material at maturity. 
3. 
All unimproved right-of-way adjacent to new development projects shall be landscaped and 
irrigated. 
4. 
Landscaping within the street frontage shall include trees and shrubs.  
5. 
Where detached walks are provided, a minimum street frontage landscape of five (5) feet is 
acceptable.  
6. 
The Director may approve a screen wall between a parking lot and a right-of-way if the following 
criteria are met: 
a. 
A screen wall must not be taller than 30 inches, unless the adjacent roadway is higher than the 
property, in which case the screen wall shall be 30 inches higher than the adjacent roadway; 
b. 
A column or jog or equivalent architectural feature is required for every twenty-five (25) linear 
feet of wall; 
c. 
The back of the wall must be at least thirty (30) inches from the face of curb for bumper overhang; 
and 
d. 
Shrubs must be planted on the street side of the wall. 
