CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-28
2.
General Procedure
The following are the applications subject to the Major Subdivision process. These applications 
may be processed individually or combined upon approval of the Director.
a.
Concept Plan (Section 4.10 F.3.);
b.
Final Plan (Section 4.10 F.4.); and
c.
Final Plat (Section 4.10 F.5.).
3.
Concept Plan
An optional process intended to review the feasibility and design characteristics of the 
proposed subdivision plan.
a.
Procedure
Figure 4-10 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Concept 
Plan applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted 
below. 
Figure 4-10: Summary of the Concept Plan Procedure
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
4
b.
Review Criteria
In considering a Concept Plan proposal, the following shall be considered:
(1)
Feasibility and design characteristics based upon compliance with the applicable
standards contained within this LDC; and
4.
Final Plan
A detailed subdivision plan, including supporting documents.
a.
Neighborhood Meeting
The Applicant shall hold a meeting with area property owners after the Application Review step
has been completed. Property owners within the notification area shall be invited to the meeting,
which will be held at a reasonable time to encourage maximum participation. The purpose of
the meeting is for the Applicant to discuss the application with area property owners and to
identify issues that may need to be resolved to meet the approval criteria in this LDC and any
other adopted County regulations. A written narrative describing the meeting attendance and
results must be submitted to the Director prior to Final Plan approval.
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.10 E.3.b. and shall only 
submit staff and agency review comments to the applicant or the 
applicant’s representative. 
