CHAPTER 1 | INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
1-4 
constructed, completed, or occupied only in compliance with this Land Development Code. 
2. 
 Plats Approved Before January 1, 2020 
Any subdivision for which a concept or final plan was approved before January 1, 2020 may, at the 
applicant’s option, be completed according to the approved plan and other applicable permits and 
conditions, even if the subdivision does not fully comply with the provisions of this Land Development 
Code. If the subdivision is not completed within the time requirements established by prior code, or 
within any schedule included in the approval of the plat, the Community Development Director may 
grant one extension of not more than one (1) year for the completion of the subdivision under the 
terms of the previous Land Development Code. If the public improvements are not completed within 
the time required under the original approval or any extension of time granted, then the 
improvements shall be completed only in compliance with this Land Development Code. 
SECTION 1.11 | VESTED RIGHTS  
Final approval of an Administrative Review (except Residential/Agricultural Site Plans), Major Subdivision Final Plan 
or PUD Final Plan shall be considered approval or conditional approval of a “site specific development plan,” as 
defined in C.R.S. §24-68-101 et. seq., and shall result in a vested right for a period of three years as provided in C.R.S. 
§24-68-101 et. seq. Within fourteen (14) days after the final approval of a site specific development plan, the 
Community Development Director shall publish notice of the creation of a vested property right as described in 
C.R.S. §24-68-103. Approved Administrative Reviews (except Residential/Agricultural Site Plans), Major Subdivision 
Final Plans, or PUD Final Plans approved as part of a site specific development plan, shall contain a note stating 
that the property right is vested for a period of three years from the date that the required vesting notice is published. 
The County is authorized to approve vested rights for periods of longer than three years through the Development 
Agreements procedure of Section 4.04. 
SECTION 1.12 | SEVERABILITY 
If a Court of competent jurisdiction declares any part of this Land Development Code to be invalid, that ruling shall 
not affect any other provisions of this Land Development Code not specifically included in that ruling.
