CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
9-4 
2. 
In the event a building does not have frontage on a dedicated public street, the owner shall designate 
the building façade where wall signs shall be located. 
3. 
Flush wall signs may extend up to twelve (12) inches from the face of the building if the base of the 
sign is at least eight (8) feet above ground level. Window signs incorporated with a window display will 
not be considered part of the total sign allowance. 
4. 
A maximum of two (2) flush wall signs may be located on a building facade.  
C. 
Freestanding Signs  
1. 
No more than one (1), twelve (12) foot high free-standing sign shall be permitted for any parcel on 
each street frontage.  
2. 
Signs may be installed at street rights-of-way line but no part of the sign shall project into the rights-of-
way. In the event that lots or parcels abut streets or roads without rights-of-way or inadequate rights-
of-way, the street setbacks shall be measured as if rights-of-way had been established using the road 
classification in accordance with the adopted Circulation Plan.  
3. 
When electrical service is provided to free-standing signs, all such electrical service shall be 
underground. 
SECTION 9.09 | NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS 
Signs shall be allowed in Nonresidential zoning districts in accordance with the standards of this subsection. 
A. 
Signs Types Allowed  
Signs in Nonresidential zoning districts may include flush wall signs, free-standing signs, projecting signs, and 
roof signs. All signs allowed in Rural and Urban Residential Zoning districts are also allowed in Nonresidential 
zoning districts.  
B. 
Location and Size  
Permitted signs may be located anywhere on the premises except as specifically restricted in this section. 
The total amount of signage to be allowed on any property shall not exceed the sign allowance standard 
of this section. No single sign may be larger than three hundred (300) square feet.  
C. 
Flush Wall Signs and Roof Signs  
1. 
The sign allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the length of the building facade which is most 
nearly parallel to the street it faces. Each building facade that faces a dedicated public street shall 
have its own sign allowance. 
2. 
In the event a building does not have frontage on a dedicated public street, the owner of the building 
may designate the one (1) building facade which shall be used for the purpose of calculating sign 
allowance. In the event the only building facade that faces on a dedicated street contains no 
commercial display area, a property owner may designate another building facade to serve as the 
basis for calculating the total amount of sign area allowed. 
3. 
Up to two (2) square feet of sign area shall be allowed for each linear foot of building facade for flush 
wall signs and roof signs. Flush wall signs may extend up to twelve (12) inches from the face of the 
building if the base of the sign is at least eight (8) feet above ground level. Window signs incorporated 
with a window display, will not be considered part of the total sign allowance. 
4. 
If a flush wall sign and roof sign are used, the total sign allowance may be divided between the signs.  
5. 
Roof signs shall be manufactured in such a way that they appear to be a part of the building with no 
visible guy wires, braces or secondary supports. Maximum height for roof signs shall be forty (40) feet 
above grade. 
