CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-14 
(4) 
Otherwise create a hazard or endanger landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft. 
9. 
Avigation Easement 
For any new development located within the Airport Environs Overlay District, an avigation easement 
shall be dedicated to the Grand Junction Regional Airport Authority with terms and conditions 
approved by the Grand Junction Regional Airport Administrator. Such grant shall not be required for 
repairing or maintaining existing structures. 
10. Disclosure of Critical and Noise Zones 
A notice of potentially high noise levels and/or location within a critical zone shall be affixed to and 
recorded with all final plats/plans.  The wording shall be as follows: 
a. 
All or part of this property is located in an area potentially subject to aircraft noise levels high 
enough to annoy users of the property and interfere with its unrestricted use.” 
b. 
If also in Critical Zone add: All or part of this property is also located in the approach and 
departure path of the airport in an area more apt to have accidents because of the takeoff and 
landing mode of aircraft.” 
11. Height Limitations 
There are hereby established imaginary surfaces, above and around the airport, in order to limit height. 
Nothing, including structures and trees, shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow, or be maintained 
so that it crosses or enters into the applicable runway approach zones as defined in Federal Aviation 
Regulations (FAR) Part 77, as amended. 
E. 
Mack Overlay District 
1. 
Purpose 
As detailed in the “Mack Community Plan”, Mack wishes to maintain its own community identity.  
Residents desire to create a distinct community core with mixed use comprised of business and 
services (home based occupation, farm related/supporting businesses) and higher density residential 
development.  Areas that are identified as mixed use, higher density, commercial, or business, must 
have facilities and services that can serve them adequately and appropriately.  Small businesses and 
neighborhood convenience centers are envisioned but large shopping centers and big box 
development are not appropriate.  
2. 
Mack Overlay District 
Mack Overlay District referred to in this LDC is on file at the Public Works Department. The Mack Overlay 
District is incorporated by this reference as if fully set forth.  
3. 
Applicability 
a. 
To implement this vision an Overlay District is created for the Rural Community of Mack (also 
known as the Mack Core Area) 
b. 
The Overlay District provides for flexibility in the land use pattern within the Rural Community of 
Mack by providing property owners with the option of developing in accordance with the 
underlying zoning or with the Mack Overlay District standards of this section. 
c. 
It is the intent of the Overlay District to allow reasonable use of property consistent with the goals 
and policies of the Plan.   
4. 
Relationship to Underlying Zoning 
Property owners shall have the option of developing allowed uses in accordance with the underlying 
zoning or with the Mack Overlay District zone as shown on the Overlay District Map.  If new 
development uses the Mack Overlay District, it shall comply with the standards in the Mack Overlay 
District zone.   The property will be designated as Tier 1 or Tier 2 of the Mack Overlay District on the 
Official Zoning Map. 
 
