CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-7 
standards and occupancy requirements of the Mesa County Building Department. 
C. 
Bed and Breakfast  
Bed and breakfast uses shall be subject to the following standards: 
1. 
Structures shall maintain a residential appearance. 
2. 
A minimum of one (1) parking space shall be provided for each guest bedroom, plus spaces required 
for the principal residence in accordance with Section 8.01. Additional parking shall be required if 
reception or party space is available. If four (4) or more off-street parking spaces are provided, visual 
screening from adjacent residential uses shall be required. 
3. 
One (1) sign shall be allowed, with a size limit of six (6) square feet. Internally illuminated signs are not 
allowed.  
4. 
Receptions, private parties, or similar activities shall only be permitted when approved as part of the 
Conditional Use Permit or Site Plan application. 
5. 
The maximum length of stay shall be thirty (30) days. 
6. 
All guest rooms shall be located within the principal structure, except for properties located within 
Rural Zoning Districts. 
7. 
Meals served to the general public shall only be permitted when approved as part of the Conditional 
Use Permit or Site Plan application. No cooking facilities shall be allowed in the guest rooms. 
8. 
All bed and breakfast establishments must comply with Mesa County Health Department regulations 
and Fire Code requirements.  
D. 
Business Residence  
Business residence uses within Nonresidential Zoning Districts shall be subject to the standards listed below: 
1. 
The intent of the business residence provision is to allow mixed use development to occur in 
Nonresidential Zoning Districts.  
2. 
A limit of fifty (50) percent of the building floor area may be developed as residential.  
3. 
A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit in addition to 
the required parking for the business(es).  
E. 
Campgrounds and Recreational Vehicle Parks 
In addition to the requirements of the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) 
regulations for Campgrounds and Recreation Areas (6 CCR 1010-9), Campgrounds and Recreational 
Vehicle Parks shall be subject to the standards listed below: 
1. 
No person shall stay in any campground more than one hundred eighty (180) days per calendar year. 
The Director on an individual basis may grant an extension for each user for an additional 90-day 
period. An extension shall be requested, in writing, by the owner or manager of the campground. 
2. 
The site shall be staffed with a minimum of one (1) attendant, twenty-four (24) hours a day.  
3. 
Separate camping areas shall be maintained for tents. 
4. 
Each campsite shall have a minimum area of one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet and 
be at least twenty-five (25) feet in width.  
5. 
There shall be no more than twenty-five (25) campsites per acre. 
6. 
Campsites shall be spaced so that there is at least: eight (8) feet from the interior roadways and 
walkways; fifty (50) feet from exterior roadways; and twenty (20) feet from property lines. 
7. 
Roadways and walkways shall meet the following requirements: 
a. 
Dust-free surfacing of parking spaces and interior roadways shall be required within the Grand 
Valley Air shed; 
