CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-25 
5. 
All accommodations shall have sanitary and bathing facilities available to guests within or in close 
proximity to the area of rental, and shall not be unduly restricted in access. 
6. 
The vacation rental shall have a minimum of one (1) off-street parking space per sleeping room plus 
one (1) additional space. All vehicles shall be parked in designated parking areas only.  
7. 
The local property manager or representative shall be a county resident who can be contacted by 
telephone and is available at all times when the home is rented. The representative shall be available 
for resolution of conflicts, cleanup of the property, or issues with the home or occupants and shall be 
able to respond within a reasonable amount of time.  
a. 
If the local representative changes, it shall be the responsibility of the owner to immediately notify 
the Mesa County Planning Department of the new representative’s name and phone number. 
b. 
If the local representative is not available for a specific period of time, the property shall not be 
rented during that time. 
8. 
No changes shall be made to the dwelling or site that would diminish or detract from the residential 
appearance in the neighborhood. 
9. 
If the proposed Vacation Rental is more in-line with the standards set forth under Section 6.02 C. Bed 
and Breakfast, it may be required that the proposed Vacation Rental be processed as a Bed and 
Breakfast. 
10. The vacation rental shall be subject to all applicable safety and health inspections, licenses, 
registrations, fees and taxes to which other licensed businesses or places of accommodation are 
subject. 
11. Failure to maintain compliance with the aforementioned standards shall result in revocation of 
approval. 
a. 
Should a vacation rental receive three (3) or more formal, verified nuisance, health and/or safety 
complaints in a calendar year, the Planning Director may revoke the site plan approval. 
CC. Utility, Production 
1. 
Applicability 
a. 
The following standards shall apply to all new energy production facilities to regulate the 
development and surface impacts that these facilities may have on the public health, safety, 
and welfare for any of the following:  
(1) 
Private energy facilities  
(2) 
Community solar garden as defined by CRS 40-2-127 
(3) 
Energy generation/production facility 
(4) 
Agrivoltaics  
b. 
Any facility that exceeds the definition of a private energy facility in C.R.S 40-2-124 or C.R.S 40-
2-127, or community solar garden in C.R.S 40-2-127 shall be processed as an energy 
generation/production facility. 
2. 
Additional Submittal Requirements for Energy Generation/Production Facilities 
a. 
Narrative 
b. 
The applicant will provide a narrative describing the proposed facility including but not limited 
to; general description of the proposal, the height and location of equipment and ancillary 
structures, health and safety, decommissioning, traffic analysis, construction schedule, type and 
location of interconnection, rated capacity,  
c. 
Site plan 
The site plan map shall be provided in a legible format and shall include but not be limited to the 
location and arrangement of screening, fencing, existing and proposed structures, equipment, 
