CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-29
b.
Additional Notice
In accordance with the requirements of Section 3.02 D., C.R.S. §30-28-133(10) and §24-65.5-103,
the Final Plan shall have submitted with it certification that the notice of the application has been
sent to the mineral estate owners, and shall include the names and addresses of all surface
owners, mineral owners, and lessees of mineral owners to whom notices of an application have
been sent as their names may appear upon the plats or records in the County Clerk and
Recorder’s office and as their most recent addresses may appear in a telephone or other
directory of general use in the area of the property or on the tax records of the County.
c.
Phasing
If construction is planned in phases, a phasing plan and schedule must be submitted for review
by staff and review agencies as a part of the development application.
d.
Procedure
Figure 4-11 identifies the application steps from which apply to the review of Final Plan
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-11: Summary of the Final Plan Procedure 
STEP
6
Planning 
Commission
Review
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
5
Neighborhood 
Meeting
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
7
e.
Approval Criteria
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be consistent with the General Approval Criteria
under Section 3.09 and the following shall be considered:
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
The Applicant shall hold a neighborhood meeting with area property 
owners after the Planning Division completes a review of the Final Plan 
in accordance with Section 4.10 F.4.a. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Planning Commission shall act as a review agency after the 
neighborhood meeting and shall provide comments and 
recommendations to the Community Development Director. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based on 
the Approval Criteria under Section 4.10 F.4.e. The decision shall be in 
writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
