CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-13 
genitals and pubic region; (b) buttocks; (c) the human female breast or breasts to a point immediately below the 
top of the areola; and (d) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely 
covered. 
Specified Sexual Activities or Sexual Conduct: (a) human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; (b) 
actual or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, cunnilingus, fellatio, anilingus or any 
sexual acts that are prohibited by law; and (c) touching or fondling of the human breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals. 
sq.ft.: square feet 
Start of construction (for floodplain regulation): Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building 
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement, or other 
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start means the first placement of permanent 
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction 
of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a 
foundation.  Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor 
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as 
dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction 
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration 
affects the external dimensions of the building. 
State Register of Historic Properties (State Register): A listing of Colorado’s significant cultural resources worthy of 
preservation for the future education and enjoyment of Colorado's residents and visitors.  Properties listed in the 
State Register include individual buildings, structures, objects, districts and historic and archaeological sites. 
Stream Channel: The area of the floodplain which carries the normal course of the watercourse. 
Street:  A public or private right-of-way which is used, or intended to be used for passage or travel of motor vehicles. 
Structure:  See Building. 
Structure (for floodplain regulation):  A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is principally above 
ground. 
Subdivision:  Subdivision shall have the meaning given in C.R.S. §30-28-101. 
Substantial damage (for floodplain regulation):  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of 
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market 
value of the structure before the damage occurred. 
Substantial Improvement: Any rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals 
or exceeds fifty (50) percent of the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the 
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual 
repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either: (1) Any project for improvement of a structure 
to correct existing violation of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specification which have been identified 
by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions or (2) 
Any alteration of a “historic structure.” 
TIA: Traffic Impact Analysis 
Telecommunication Facilities:  Any cables, wires, lines, wave guides, antennas and any other equipment or facilities 
associated with the transmission or reception of communications which a person seeks to locate or has installed 
upon or near a Tower or Antenna Support Structure.  
Telecommunication Facility, Attached:  An array that is attached to an existing building or structure, including utility 
poles, signs, water towers, and similar structures with any associated connection cables, and an equipment facility 
which may be located either inside or outside of the attachment structure. 
Telecommunications Support Structure: A structure designed and constructed specifically to support an antenna 
array, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower, guy-wire support tower and other similar 
structures. Any device used solely to attach an attached telecommunications facility to an existing building or 
structure shall be excluded from this definition. 
Temporary Shelter: The use of camping equipment or facilities such as tents or other manufactured fabric shelters 
