CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-4 
from its foundation or pad for a continuous period of one (1) year shall constitute abandonment 
of the use and placement of a new unit must comply with the provisions of this LDC. Evidence of 
intent to abandon the nonconforming mobile home or manufactured home use is not required. 
3. 
Damage or Destruction 
Nonconforming residential uses that are damaged or destroyed may be reestablished in accordance 
with the following: 
a. 
All portions of the structure being restored are not and were not on or over a property line; 
b. 
The number of dwelling units does not increase; 
c. 
All construction must be in compliance with current fire and building codes and other applicable 
regulations; 
d. 
A building permit must be obtained within one (1) year from the date of the damage; and 
e. 
The certificate of occupancy (or other final inspection) must be issued within two (2) years of the 
issuance of the building permit.  
f. 
Deadlines for obtaining a permit and completing construction may be extended by the Director 
for up to one (1) year if the work is subject to delays caused by litigation, settlement of insurance 
claims, weather, or other conditions related to the loss beyond the applicant’s control. 
C. 
Agricultural Uses 
Agricultural uses, as defined in Section 12.07 A. of this LDC, that are located in the Rural zoning districts shall 
not be deemed to have been abandoned regardless of how long the use has been abandoned. 
D. 
Accessory Uses  
No use that is accessory to a principal nonconforming use shall continue after the principle use is 
abandoned, damaged or destroyed and not reestablished according to this Section. 
SECTION 10.03 | NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES  
Nonconforming structures shall be subject to the following standards. 
A. 
Enlargement  
1. 
Any expansion of a nonconforming structure that increases the degree of nonconformity shall be 
prohibited. Expansions of the structure that comply with applicable dimensional standards shall be 
permitted.  (For example, adding to a building within the allowable setbacks when another part of 
the building is encroaching into a setback is permissible.  Increasing the height of a building over the 
portion of a building that is encroaching in a setback would not be permitted.)  The determination of 
whether a proposed expansion increases the degree of nonconformity shall be made by the Director. 
2. 
Any expansion of a structure that is nonconforming with respect to parking, landscaping, 
screening/buffering or similar development standards shall be required to meet the requirements of 
this LDC as follows: 
a. 
An increase less than twenty-five (25) percent of the existing structure shall not require any 
correction other than what may be required by fire and building codes or other applicable 
regulations. This allowance shall only be permitted once.  All subsequent increases shall be 
subject to subsection (b) below. 
b. 
For structures that are increased by twenty-five (25) percent or more, parking, landscaping and 
other requirements shall be provided proportionally for the increased area as set forth in this LDC. 
B. 
Damage or Destruction  
In the event that any nonconforming structure is damaged or destroyed, such structure may be 
reconstructed in accordance with the following: 
1. 
All portions of the structure being restored are not and were not on or over a property line; 
