CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-21 
the facility in accordance with this Section. Subsequent extensions may be applied for in the same 
manner.  
4. 
Closure 
When the need for the use is finished, the support services facility structures must be removed within 
ninety (90) days of closure except as stipulated in the surface use agreement. If the land owner desires 
that the structures remain on the property, he must apply for the appropriate County development 
permit within thirty (30) days of closure of the facility. The Director shall be notified at least ten (10) days 
prior to removal of improvements.  Within ninety (90) days after the removal is completed, a 
reclamation report shall be submitted to the Director indicating that the site was reclaimed as set forth 
in the approved reclamation plan.  
X. 
Field Office Headquarters for Oil and Gas Field Operators 
All field office headquarter sites shall be designed to achieve the following: 
1. 
Appropriate internal circulation for employees and visitors is provided for both vehicle and foot traffic. 
Buildings relate to each other in a campus-like clustered setting and are constructed to blend with the 
character of the area and surrounding vistas. 
2. 
Outdoor storage of equipment and vehicles as well as parking areas are screened from adjacent land 
uses including public road frontages. 
a. 
A landscape/fencing plan shall be proposed which is suitable to achieve the screening and in 
character with the area. Alternatively, buildings may provide screening. 
b. 
Landscaping and screening is not required if the outdoor storage areas are not visible from 
adjacent properties. 
3. 
Section 6.02 X.2.a. (above) criteria for Oil and Gas Support Services, shall be utilized. Section 6.02 X.2.b. 
(above) may not be applicable if modular structures, outdoor storage and parking are located on a 
portion of the site not visible from interstate highways, arterial roads and scenic byways. 
Y. 
Temporary Employee Housing 
The following information, standards and requirements shall be required for all temporary employee housing 
related to commercial, industrial, transportation, oil and gas, or mineral extraction projects:       
1. 
The following information shall be submitted with an application for a Conditional Use Permit or Site 
Plan:  
a. 
Demonstration of the need for the facility in the location proposed to serve oil and gas operations 
and documenting any lack of suitably zoned land in the project area. 
b. 
Discussion of the adequacy of roads and access to the site, including the condition and 
construction of the roads.  
c. 
A letter from a licensed waste disposal facility(ies) stating that the facility(ies) is able and willing 
to receive the development’s refuse as applicable. 
d. 
An emergency management plan.     
e. 
A reclamation and re-vegetation plan. 
2. 
The following standards will apply to all temporary employee housing facilities:  
a. 
Dust shall be controlled on the site, public and internal roads, and on driveways serving the site 
in accordance with State and local regulations.  Existing driveways and private roads shall be 
used to the greatest extent possible.   
b. 
The use shall be located so that existing topography, vegetation, and/or distance render it not 
visible from interstate highways, arterial roads, or scenic byways. 
c. 
The facility shall be constructed to minimize erosion, alteration of natural features, and removal 
of surface materials to the greatest extent practical.  The following issues shall be taken into 
consideration when designing a facility on a specific site: 
