CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-39 
2. 
Approval Criteria 
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be consistent with the approved Outline Development 
Plan. A Final Plan is deemed to be consistent with the approved Outline Development Plan when; 
a. 
The locations of connections to public roads and adjacent properties are not altered. Internal 
vehicle and pedestrian circulation may be modified;  
b. 
Drainage and detention facility locations are retained within the general areas identified in the 
approved Outline Development Plan;   
c. 
All applicable requirements of this LDC are met; and  
d. 
Other modifications are determined by the Director to be consistent with the approved Outline 
Development Plan.  
3. 
Time Frames 
The Final Plan shall be approved within one (1) year of the date of submittal. One (1) extension of one 
(1) year may be approved by the Director upon review of a written request. 
4. 
Appeal 
Appeals of decisions of the Director may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in 
accordance with the procedures of Section 4.02. 
E. 
Final Plat  
A Final Plat application shall be submitted for a PUD when subdivision of the property is required. 
1. 
Public Improvements/Development Improvements Agreements 
Before approval of a Final Plat, the applicant must install all required public and private improvements 
in accordance with the approved improvements construction plans or execute a Development 
Improvements Agreement to install such improvements, in accordance with Section 4.05. 
2. 
Application Filing 
Final Plat applications shall be submitted to the Director.  
3. 
Director’s Action 
The Director shall review each Final Plat application, and act to approve or deny the Final Plat, after 
determining whether or not it is consistent with the approved Final Plan. 
4. 
Acceptance of Improvements 
Approval of a Final Plat shall not, in and of itself, constitute acceptance of any public improvements. 
Such acceptance will require separate action by the Board of County Commissioners. 
5. 
Recording; Lapse of Approval 
If the approved Final Plat or Site Development Plan is not recorded with the Clerk and Recorder of 
Mesa County within three (3) years of the date of approval of the Final Plat, the Outline Development 
Plan and Final Plans shall lapse and be of no further effect. Two (2) one (1) year extensions of time may 
be approved by the Director upon review of a written request when deemed necessary due to 
unforeseen circumstances. If approval lapses, the Director shall record a lapse of approval affidavit 
with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder.  
6. 
Corrections for Errors or Omissions for Minor Changes to Recorded Plats 
If it is discovered that there is a minor survey or drafting error, the Registered Land Surveyor who has 
certified the plat shall be notified of any errors or omissions, where upon the Registered Land Surveyor 
shall submit an Affidavit of Correction to the County Surveyor for verification. If the Surveyor who 
certified the plat is absent, the County Surveyor shall prepare the Affidavit of Correction. The 
completed Affidavit shall be submitted to the Mesa County Community Development Department to 
be recorded with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder within ten (10) days of completion. 
