CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
9-5 
 
Figure 9-1: Signage 
D. 
Projecting Signs  
1. 
Signs may project up to six (6) feet from the face of the building if located eight (8) feet or more above 
grade but shall not project beyond the back of curb. Total area per sign face shall not exceed one-
half (½) square foot per linear foot of building facade. If the projecting sign is the only sign mounted 
on the building, it need not be less than twelve (12) square feet per face. 
2. 
On places of public entertainment such as theaters, arenas, meeting halls, etc., where changeable 
copy signs are used which project over public domain, the projection may be one-half (½) foot for 
each linear foot of building frontage provided that it does not extend further than four (4) feet back 
of the curb face. 
E. 
Freestanding Signs  
1. 
No more than one (1) free-standing sign shall be permitted for any parcel for each street frontage. 
The sign allowance per frontage can only be used on that frontage and shall not be transferred to 
any other frontage. 
2. 
Maximum sign allowance shall be calculated by the linear front foot of property on a public right-of-
way in accordance with the following: 
TABLE 9-2: FREESTANDING SIGN AREA STANDARDS 
Number of Traffic Lanes 
Maximum Sign Face Area 
(per foot of street frontage) 
Maximum Height 
2 
0.75 
25 
3+ 
1.5 
40 
3. 
Signs may be installed at street rights-of-way line but no part of the sign shall project into the rights-of-
way line. In the event that lots or parcels abut streets or roads with inadequate rights-of-way, the street 
setbacks shall be measured as if rights-of-way had been established using the road classification in 
accordance with the adopted Circulation Plan. Single legs of one-way pairs shall be treated as four-
lane roads. 
4. 
When electrical service is provided to free-standing signs, all such electrical service shall be 
underground. 
SECTION 9.10 | PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS AND CONDITIONAL USES 
Properties in an approved Planned Unit Development or part of an approved Conditional Use Permit shall have the 
