CHAPTER 2 | REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
2-3 
4. 
Other Matters 
a. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation 
and floodway data available from any federal, state, or other source as criteria for requiring that 
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development or activities in flood hazard 
Zone A are administered in accordance with this Land Development Code. 
b. 
In riverine situations, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify adjacent communities and the state 
coordinating office prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of 
such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. In such situations, the 
Floodplain Administrator shall also ensure that maintenance is provided within the altered or 
relocated portion of said watercourse so that flood carrying capacity is not diminished. 
c. 
From all Floodplain Development Permit applicants, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain and 
record the actual elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially 
improved structures. 
d. 
For new or substantially improved flood-proofed structures, the Floodplain Administrator shall 
obtain and record the actual elevation to which the structure has been flood-proofed and shall 
maintain all flood proofing certifications required by this Land Development Code. 
e. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain public records of all Floodplain Development Permits 
that have been approved or denied, which may in turn be submitted to the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency as required. 
f. 
When a FEMA-mapped floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator must 
require that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) 
shall not be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is 
demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with 
all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of 
the base flood more than one-half (1/2) foot at any point within the community. 
SECTION 2.06 | STORMWATER ADMINISTRATOR 
A. 
Designation of Stormwater Administrator 
The Public Works Director shall designate a staff person who shall serve as the Stormwater Administrator. 
B. 
Powers and Duties 
1. 
The Stormwater Permit Administrator shall be responsible for reviewing Stormwater Construction 
permits to determine if the permit requirements of this Land Development Code have been satisfied 
and for acting to approve, approve with conditions, or deny such permits. In so doing, the Stormwater 
Administrator shall ensure that all other necessary permits have been obtained from those 
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required by federal or state law. 
2. 
The Stormwater Administrator shall be responsible for preparing reports for the Board of County 
Commissioners hearings on appeals. 
SECTION 2.07 | AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY PANEL 
A. 
Powers and Duties  
The Agricultural Advisory Panel shall be responsible for investigating any complaint relating to an 
agricultural use (Section 1.06) and for preparing a recommendation to assist the Board of County 
Commissioners in their consideration of such complaint. 
SECTION 2.08 | COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR 
A. 
Powers and Duties  
1. 
The Community Development Director, also referred to as “Director” throughout this LDC, shall be 
responsible for reviewing proposed text and map amendments to the Mesa County Master Plan, and 
for preparing a report to assist the Planning Commission in their consideration of such applications 
