CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-20 
the roads. 
b. 
A letter from licensed waste disposal facility(ies) stating that the facility(ies) is able and willing to 
receive sewage and/or refuse from the proposed use. 
c. 
An emergency management plan.   
d. 
A reclamation and re-vegetation plan. 
The reclamation and re-vegetation requirements may be modified if the operator has entered 
into an alternative agreement with the surface owner. 
2. 
The following criteria will apply to all support services facilities:  
a. 
Dust shall be controlled on public roads as agreed upon with the Mesa County Road Department 
Supervisor.   
b. 
Existing driveways and private roads should be used to the greatest extent possible.   
c. 
The use should be located so that existing topography, vegetation and/or distance minimize 
visibility from interstate highways, arterial roads, or scenic byways. 
d. 
The facility should be located no less than one (1) mile (measured in driving distance on public 
roads) from another facility.  The Director may allow the facility to be located less than one (1) 
mile from another facility provided that the application demonstrates a reasonable justification 
for locating the proposed facility within this one (1) mile distance.   
e. 
The facility must be located at least four hundred (400) feet from an existing residence unless a 
written waiver of this standard is obtained from the property owner.  
f. 
The grounds shall be kept free of weeds, junk, and trash at all times. 
g. 
Landscaping, fencing and berms shall be used in combinations that effectively screen the facility 
from existing residences visible from the proposed site.  Fencing may be eight (8) feet in height to 
screen equipment storage. 
h. 
Wildlife-proof trash receptacles shall be used. 
i. 
Except as required for safety purposes, reflective materials shall not be utilized on any buildings, 
walls, or fencing.  Reflective materials stored outdoors shall not be visible from roads or properties 
in the area. 
j. 
Engines, compressors, and motors shall be equipped with quiet design mufflers or equivalent.  All 
mechanical equipment shall be placed and operated to contain vibration within the property 
boundary. 
k. 
A specific plan for containment and disposal of fuel and waste from heavy equipment 
maintenance shall be provided to meet local, state, and federal regulations.   
l. 
Ongoing vehicle and/or equipment repair and/or maintenance activity shall be conducted 
either within an enclosed building or between the hours of 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. seven (7) days per 
week. Emergency repair activities may be conducted outside those time frames. 
m. 
The site will be designed as a containment area and shall maintain a minimum distance from 
perennial or intermittent streams or drainages as recommended by the project engineer or 
geologist.  The operator shall comply with all applicable state and federal regulations regarding 
protection of waters of the state.   
n. 
Access roads shall be maintained at all times to allow emergency vehicles into the site as 
needed. 
3. 
Time Limitations 
Conditional Use Permit approvals for support services facilities are valid for a period of three (3) years. 
The operator may submit a request for an extension of time before the end of the three (3) year period. 
The operator shall submit to the Director a written narrative describing the condition of the facility, its 
compliance with each of the County permit requirements, and demonstrate the continued need for 
