CHAPTER 2 | REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
2-4 
(Section 4.11). 
2. 
The Director shall be responsible for reviewing the following applications, and for preparing a report 
to assist the Planning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners in their consideration of 
such applications. 
a. 
Land Development Code Amendments (Section 4.09) 
b. 
Rezonings (Section 4.15) 
c. 
Planned Unit Developments Outline Development Plan and Rezoning (Section 4.12 C.) 
d. 
Conditional Use Permits (Section 4.03)  
e. 
Register of Historic Landmarks (Section 4.14) 
3. 
The Director shall be responsible for reviewing the following applications, and for taking final action to 
approve, approve with conditions, or deny such applications. 
a. 
Administrative Reviews 
b. 
Major Subdivisions (Section 4.10 E.) 
c. 
Site Plans (Section 4.16) 
d. 
Administrative Adjustments (Section 4.01) 
e. 
Written Interpretations (Section 4.21) 
f. 
Planned Unit Developments (Section 4.12) 
(1) 
Final Plan (Section 4.12 D.) 
(2) 
Final Plat (Section 4.12 E.) 
4. 
The Director shall be responsible for reviewing Vacation applications, and for preparing a report to 
assist the Board of County Commissioners in their consideration of such applications. 
5. 
The Director shall be responsible for reviewing Zoning Variance applications, and for preparing a report 
to assist the Board of Adjustment in its consideration of such applications. 
6. 
The Director shall be responsible for preparing reports to assist the Board of Adjustment or Board of 
County Commissioners in the consideration of appeals. 
7. 
Other Matters 
The Director shall also have those powers and duties designated by the Board of County 
Commissioners, including the following: 
a. 
Keeping copies of each application filed, each plat submitted, and each development permit 
issued; 
b. 
Providing professional planning staff assistance to the Agricultural Advisory Panel, Board of 
Adjustment, Planning Commission, and the Board of County Commissioners; 
c. 
Conducting short term planning studies and analysis to aid in the orderly development of the 
County; and 
d. 
Engaging in activities designed to improve the economic development of the County. Including: 
grant applications and administration; policy analysis and recommendation; and functional 
planning (open space, transportation, utility and energy facility planning) 
 
