CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-3 
4. 
Relocation 
A nonresidential nonconforming use may be moved in whole or in part to another portion of the 
property, provided the relocation will bring the use into conformance with applicable development 
standards or otherwise reduce the degree to which the use is nonconforming or impacts to 
neighboring properties. 
5. 
Damage or Destruction 
A nonconforming nonresidential use that is damaged or destroyed may be reestablished in 
accordance with the following:  
a. 
A use may only be reestablished within a conforming structure, except as may be permitted in 
Section 10.03 of this chapter; 
b. 
All restorative and other work must be in compliance with current fire and building codes and 
other applicable regulations; 
c. 
A building permit must be issued within one (1) year from the date of the damage; and 
d. 
The certificate of occupancy (or other final inspection) must be issued within two (2) years of the 
issuance of the building permit. 
e. 
Deadlines for obtaining a permit and completing construction may be extended by the Director 
for up to one (1) year if the work is subject to delays caused by litigation, settlement of insurance 
claims, weather, or other conditions related to the claim beyond the applicant’s control. 
B. 
Residential Uses 
A “nonconforming residential use” is a structure or property that contains more dwellings than allowed by 
the zone or is a dwelling located in a nonresidential zone that does not permit residential uses. 
1. 
Expansion 
In all zones, a residential use may be expanded if no additional dwelling units are created and all 
other provisions of this LDC are met.  Accessory structures for a nonconforming residential use such as 
a garage or storage shed shall be allowed if all applicable provisions of this LDC are met. Accessory 
dwelling units shall not be permitted. 
a. 
Any expansion of a residential use that is nonconforming with respect to parking, landscaping, 
screening/buffering or similar development standards shall be required to meet the requirements 
of this LDC as follows: 
(1) 
An increase less than twenty-five (25) percent of the existing structure shall not require any 
correction other than what may be required by fire and building codes or other applicable 
regulations. This allowance shall only be permitted once.  All subsequent increases shall be 
subject to subsection (2) below. 
(2) 
For structures that are increased by twenty-five (25) percent or more, parking, landscaping 
and other requirements shall be provided proportionally for the increased area, as set forth 
in this LDC. 
2. 
Abandonment 
a. 
A nonconforming residential use, other than a single-family dwelling, that has not been occupied 
for a continuous period of one (1) year, for whatever reason, shall be considered to be 
abandoned and shall not be reoccupied except in conformance with all applicable provisions 
of this LDC. Evidence of intent to abandon the nonconforming use is not required. 
b. 
A nonconforming single-family dwelling that has not been occupied for a continuous period of 
one (1) year or longer shall not be considered to be abandoned and may be reoccupied at any 
time provided the structure has not been changed, legally or illegally, to a nonresidential use or 
multiple-unit residential use, and unless reoccupying the structure poses a risk to public health 
and safety. 
c. 
Removal of a nonconforming mobile home or manufactured home, not in a mobile home park, 
