CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-32 
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM (at least 
two feet if no depth number is specified), or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be 
completely flood proofed to that level to meet the requirements of this Section. 
15. Fully enclosed areas of all residential, commercial, industrial or other structures below the lowest floor 
(to be used solely for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a 
basement) that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood 
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this 
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or 
exceed the following minimum criteria:  
a. 
A minimum of two (2) openings with a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every 
one (1) square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided; and  
b. 
The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above grade. Openings may be 
equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit 
the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. 
16. A permit shall be required for all proposed construction or other development including placement of 
manufactured homes to determine whether such construction or development is in a floodplain. 
L. 
Standards for Recreational Vehicles  
Recreational vehicles within numbered or unnumbered A zones, AO, AE and AH zones shall: 
1. 
Be defined as: 
a. 
Be built on a single chassis; 
b. 
Be four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; 
c. 
Be designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; 
d. 
Be designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for 
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use; and 
2. 
Recreational vehicles within numbered or unnumbered A zones, AO, AE and AH zones shall either: 
a. 
Comply with the permitting, elevating and anchoring requirements for manufactured housing 
units and manufactured homes as set out in this Section; or 
b. 
Be on site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days and be fully licensed 
and legal for highway use. 
For the purpose of this Section, a recreational vehicle shall be deemed ready for highway use if 
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-connect type utilities and 
securing devices, and has no permanently attached additions. 
M. 
Properties Removed from the Floodplain by Fill 
A Floodplain Development Permit shall not be issued for the construction of a new structure or addition to 
an existing structure on a property removed from the floodplain by the issuance of a FEMA Letter of Map 
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F), with a lowest floor elevation placed below the Base Flood Elevation with 
one (one) foot of freeboard that existed prior to the placement of fill. 
N. 
Standards for Critical Facilities 
A Critical Facility is a structure or related infrastructure, but not the land on which it is situated, as specified 
in Rule 6 of the Rules and Regulations for Regulatory Floodplains in Colorado, that if flooded may result in 
significant hazards to public health and safety or interrupt essential services and operations for the 
community at any time before, during and after a flood.  
1. 
Classification of Critical Facilities 
It is the responsibility of Mesa County to identify and confirm that specific structures in their community 
meet the following criteria. 
