CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-17 
maneuvering area for delivery and trash collection vehicles. 
7. 
All developments, including multi-family housing, shall provide a designated trash collection area 
meeting the requirements of this Section. 
SECTION 8.06 | PUBLIC LAND AND OPEN SPACE DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS 
A. 
Public Land Dedications 
Dedication of land for public Open Space/Park purposes shall be required of any development if such 
development includes within it land that is necessary for implementing an adopted park, bikeway, trails, or 
open space plan, provided that every land dedication shall be related both in nature and extent to the 
impact of the proposed development. Wherever feasible, required Open Space/Park areas shall be 
located adjacent to public lands and connected to trails and other open space areas. These shall be 
designed as outlots on the plat, with a dedication statement for the proposed use. 
B. 
Open Space Requirement 
1. 
All Manufactured Home Parks and all multi-family residential developments shall provide common 
open space based on the project’s net site area.  
2. 
The open space requirement shall be a minimum of twenty (20) percent of the net site area of the 
project. Net site area shall be defined as the gross land area of the site, less any lots used for 
nonresidential development and the land area devoted to street rights-of-way. Open spaces shall be 
designated as outlots on a plat with a dedication statement for the proposed use.  If extenuating 
circumstances exist that prohibit the ability of the development to achieve a minimum of twenty (20) 
percent open space, the Director may approve a reduction in the open space requirement. 
3. 
Whenever possible, the land set aside as open space shall include significant natural features or 
recreation resources, such as water courses, rock outcroppings, significant geological features, stands 
of trees, hills and flood plains. Driveways, perimeter sidewalks, garages, carports and parking areas 
may not be counted as open space. Open space shall be no less than fifteen (15) feet in any one 
dimension and no less than five hundred (500) square feet per segment.  
4. 
It is encouraged that at least fifty (50) percent of the open space shall be suitable (by location and 
topography) for active recreational use, pedestrian pathways, or shared patios. Land occupied by 
active recreational uses such as clubhouses, pools, playgrounds, tennis courts, benches, tot-lots or 
other play areas, and jogging trails (but not required sidewalks) may be counted as active 
recreational use common open space. Detention areas that are designed to be multi-functional and 
allow active recreational use may be counted as open space. 
5. 
Open space required by this Section shall be dedicated to and maintained either by a Property 
Owner’s Association, or other legal entity approved by the County, and shall be maintained by such 
association or entity unless it is dedicated to and accepted by the County. If dedicated to a Property 
Owners' Association, there shall be covenants running with the land restricting the use of open space 
to such, and prohibiting subdivision or separation of ownership of the open space, except as noted in 
this Section. Such restriction shall be noted on the recorded Site Plan and/or Final Plat.  
SECTION 8.07 | GENERAL SITE PLANNING STANDARDS  
New construction shall comply with the following standards, unless compliance with a particular standard would 
(1) prevent the construction of any permanent structure for a primary use on the land, or (2) require the construction 
to violate another requirement of this LDC. Where more than one buildable site exists on a parcel and all buildable 
sites would violate at least one of the following standards, the construction shall be located so as to comply with as 
many standards as possible. These standards are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and do not create 
liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the Board of County Commissioners. 
A. 
Hazard Areas  
Land subject to hazardous conditions such as wildfire, landslides, gamma radiation, mud flows, rock falls, 
snow avalanches, possible mine subsidence, shallow water table, open quarries, floods, steep slopes, soil 
creep, seismicity, expansive, hydrocompactive and erodible soils, and polluted or nonpotable water 
