CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-22 
whether the proposed water supply meets this standard, the Decision Making Body shall give substantial 
weight to the recommendations of the State Water Quality Division, Mesa County Health Department, the 
State Engineer, other appropriate agencies, and County staff.  
B. 
Municipal, Private and District Water Systems  
If a proposed development falls within the service area of a municipality, private water service company, 
or water service district, or if drinking water is to be provided to the development by any of these systems, 
then the proposed development may be approved by the County only if the following are met: 
1. 
The applicant submits to the County a written certification from the proposed water service provider, 
on forms provided by the County, stating: 
a. 
That it is able and willing to provide an adequate supply of drinking water;  
b. 
The specific quantity, quality and pressure it will provide to meet the needs of the proposed 
development based on the projected water usage of that development; and  
c. 
If an expansion to the existing system is required to obtain adequate service. 
2. 
The applicant agrees in writing to connect the proposed development to such system.  
If a proposed development is unable to obtain service from such a system, then the development 
may be approved only if a new system is created through formation of a Metropolitan District, Water 
District local improvement district, or other public legal entity approved by the Board of County 
Commissioners. 
C. 
Wells  
If private wells are proposed for new development, the following shall be required to determine the 
adequacy of such system before approval:  
1. 
Evidence of ownership and water court decree, including an augmentation plan where applicable, 
proof of a well permit, amenability of existing rights for the proposed use, and evidence concerning 
the potability of the proposed water supply; and, 
2. 
A geologic report shall be submitted by a qualified groundwater geologist, which indicates: 
a. 
The probability of ground water withdrawal of wells or on-site supply systems within the proposed 
subdivision; 
b. 
The expected long-term yield of such wells or systems; 
c. 
The expected depth to potable water; 
d. 
The expected quality of anticipated water; 
e. 
Any expected significant problems of long-term supply; and, 
f. 
Alternate arrangements available in the event of well or treatment system failure. 
D. 
Cisterns  
Cisterns are a permitted source of potable drinking water only for individual dwelling units on unplatted 
parcels of land, and must comply with applicable Colorado Health Department standards and the Uniform 
Building Code.  
SECTION 8.10 | FIRE PROTECTION  
A. 
Applicability  
All major subdivisions, minor subdivisions, major site plans, planned unit developments, commercial 
developments, and industrial development shall comply with the fire protection standards of this Section. 
With the exception of the aforementioned project types, all other Administrative Reviews as listed in 
Chapter 4 of this LDC shall be exempt from the standards of this Section. 
