CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-26 
easements. See The Handbook for plat requirements.  
SECTION 8.13 | IRRIGATION CANALS AND LATERALS 
A. 
Encroachments  
No new development shall be permitted to encroach in, under, upon, or interfere with the recorded or 
apparent easements or rights-of-way of irrigation canals, laterals, or irrigation drainage channels without 
the written consent of the property owner and the responsible irrigation or drainage company, or district or 
lateral association.  
B. 
Standards  
All new development must comply with the standards of the responsible irrigation or drainage company, 
or district or lateral association. New development shall be required to use irrigation water for irrigation 
purposes wherever irrigation water is physically and legally available, rather than use potable domestic 
water.  
SECTION 8.14 | FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS  
A. 
Findings  
The Board of County Commissioners finds that certain areas of unincorporated Mesa County are subject to 
periodic inundation by flood waters that may result in loss of life, property, disruption of commerce and 
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment 
of the tax base, all of which may adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. Further, 
the Board of County Commissioners finds that such flooding may pose a serious hazard to properties and 
persons, that development within affected areas may increase the degree of hazard to other people 
situated both upstream and downstream, and that appropriate regulations addressing the use of such 
hazard areas are therefore necessary. 
B. 
Purpose and Intent  
It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and to 
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas, by provisions designed to: 
1. 
Protect the public from the burden of avoidable financial expenditures for flood control projects, flood 
relief measures, and damages to public utilities, streets, and bridges; 
2. 
Protect people and property within the floodplain by regulating the construction of buildings; 
3. 
Protect the people downstream and/or upstream by restricting those uses that may be hazardous to 
life or property in time of flood, and to insure that structures placed in the floodplain be adequately 
flood proofed; 
4. 
Protect and preserve the natural water carrying and storage characteristics, and capacities of all 
water courses; 
5. 
Restrict uses which may be hazardous to the public health in time of flood; 
6. 
Minimize or eliminate discharges or infiltration from waste disposal systems into flood waters; 
7. 
Discourage people from purchasing lands which are unsuitable for building purposes due to flood 
hazards; 
8. 
Protect human life and health; 
9. 
Minimize prolonged business interruptions; 
10. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of areas of special 
flood hazard, so as to minimize future flood blight areas; 
11. To notify potential buyers that property is in an area of special flood hazard; and 
12. To notify those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards that they assume responsibility for their 
actions. 
