CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-35 
An RV or temporary structures may be used as a temporary dwelling during construction or remodel 
of a single-family residence in a Rural zoning district, or in an Urban Residential zoning district on a 
property that is one (1) acre or greater in size and where a valid building permit has been issued. 
SECTION 6.05 | TEMPORARY USES  
A. 
General Regulations  
The general regulations of this subsection shall apply to all allowed temporary uses unless otherwise 
expressly stated. 
1. 
The temporary use regulations of this section do not exempt the applicant or operator from any other 
required permits, such as health department permits. 
2. 
Unless otherwise expressly stated, temporary uses shall be subject to Site Plan Review pursuant to 
Section 4.16. 
B. 
Uses Allowed   
Temporary uses shall be allowed in accordance with the standards of this subsection. 
1. 
Real Estate Sales Offices 
Sales offices are allowed on residential development sites in any zoning district until all lots or houses 
are sold. Use of the sales office for sites outside of the project is prohibited.  
2. 
Fairs, Carnivals, and Other Public Gatherings 
Fairs, carnivals, and other public gatherings shall be allowed as follows: 
a. 
In Rural Zoning Districts, such uses shall be allowed for up to six (6) consecutive days. Two (2) 
events are allowed per calendar-year. 
b. 
In Urban Residential Zoning Districts, such uses shall be allowed for up to four (4) consecutive days 
on the site of an institutional use. Two (2) events are allowed per calendar-year. 
c. 
In Nonresidential Zoning Districts, such uses shall be allowed for up to eight (8) consecutive days. 
Two (2) events are allowed per calendar-year. 
3. 
Natural Disasters and Emergencies 
Temporary uses and structures needed as the result of a natural disaster or other health and safety 
emergencies are allowed for the duration of the emergency. No Site Plan Review or other review shall 
be required. 
4. 
Parking Lot Sales 
Parking lot sales are allowed in Nonresidential Zoning Districts for up to two (2) consecutive weeks at 
any one time. Two (2) events are allowed per calendar year. 
5. 
Seasonal Outdoor Sales  
Seasonal outdoor sales are allowed for up to one (1) month at any one time. One (1) event is allowed 
per calendar year. The Director may approve an application for seasonal outdoor sales, subject to a 
limited administrative review, considering the approval criteria for temporary uses. The limited 
administrative review does not require notice of the application to be published, posted, or mailed to 
surrounding property owners. 
6. 
Other Uses 
The Director may approve other temporary uses and activities or special events if it is determined that 
such uses would not jeopardize the health, safety, or general welfare, or be injurious or detrimental to 
properties adjacent to, or in the vicinity of, the proposed location of the activity. 
7. 
Yard Sales  
Residential yard sales are allowed in the AFT, RSF-R, RSF-E, RSF-1, RSF-2, RSF-4, RMF-5, RMF-8, RMF-16, 
and RMF-24 zones. Yard sales are exempt from permit requirements and from any administrative 
