CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-6 
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated 
height.  The Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to be used for all newly studied reaches shall 
be one-half (.5) foot.  Letters of Map Revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use the floodway 
criteria in place at the time of the existing floodway delineation. 
Floor Area: Measurement in determining the minimum floor area of a building/structure. All measurements shall be 
made along the outside enclosing walls, except that the garage and carport areas shall not be included as a part 
of the required floor area. 
Forestry:  A land use which creates, conserves and manages forests and forest lands for the continuing use of both 
commodity and non-commodity benefits. 
Forestry Support Services:  Land uses which provide support service for forestry land uses in that they contract with 
private land owners and public land managers to harvest trees.  Forestry support services’ sites include office space, 
storage and maintenance of equipment used to harvest and transport forest trees, and storage of harvested trees.    
Wood grinding/chipping may be allowed as an accessory use. 
Frontage:  The length of any one property line of a premise, which property line abuts a legally accessible street 
right-of-way. 
Full Cutoff Light Fixture:  A light fixture in which no more than two and one half (2.5) percent of its total output is 
emitted above ninety (90) degrees from the vertical pole or building wall on which it is mounted. 
Greenhouse/Nursery:  An establishment engaged principally in the cultivation of and sale of trees, shrubs, flowers, 
or other plants.  Accessory uses may include but are not limited to the sale of materials commonly used for 
landscaping purposes such as soil, rock, mulch, packaged fertilizers or chemicals.  The seasonal sale of locally 
produced fruits and vegetables (produced on the Western Slope) is permitted as an accessory use.   
Grade:  (a) The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in percentage terms, and (b) The average 
elevation adjoining all the walls at ground level of the buildable area, i.e. the area conforming to all setback 
requirements, of a lot, tract or parcel of land. 
Hazardous Substance:  Any material as described in 40 CFR 300.5. 
Hazardous Substance User: A nonresidential use that consumes or produces in the course of its activities, or as a 
byproduct of its activities, over 1,000 pounds of any hazardous substance within any one year.  
Heavy Equipment: Any vehicle with a gross weight greater than fifteen thousand (15,000) pounds which is used 
primarily for commercial purposes, including but not limited to trucks, earthmovers, backhoes and loaders, but not 
including recreational vehicles or farm equipment. 
Historic District:  A significant concentration, linkage, or continuity of sites, buildings, structures, or objects united 
historically or aesthetically by plan or physical development.  
Historic Landmark: A building, structure, site, object or district that is of historic, architectural or cultural significance 
to the community, region, state or nation, and is so designated and listed on the County Register of Historic 
Landmarks. 
Historic Resource: A building, site, structure, object or district that is listed on the County Register of Historic 
Landmarks, the State Register of Historic Properties, or the National Register of Historic Places. 
Home Occupation:  A business, profession, occupation or trade conducted for gain, conducted within a dwelling 
unit for gain or support by a resident of the dwelling unit. 
Household:  Any one of the following: 
1. 
One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship, including  foster 
children, living together in a dwelling unit; or 
2. 
A group of not more than five persons not related by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal  guardianship 
living together in a dwelling unit; or 
3. 
Two unrelated persons and their children living together in a dwelling unit. 
Impervious Surface: Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the infiltration of stormwater or other water 
into previously undeveloped land. 
