CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-26 
1. 
Characteristics 
 Manufacturing and Production firms are involved in the manufacturing, processing, fabrication, 
packaging, or assembly of goods. Natural, man-made, raw, secondary, or partially completed 
materials may be used. Products may be finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the 
wholesale market, for transfer to other plants, or to order for firms or consumers. Goods are generally 
not displayed or sold on site, but if so, they are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers 
come to the manufacturing site. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory activities may include offices, cafeterias, parking, employee recreational facilities, 
warehouses, storage yards, repair facilities, truck fleets and caretaker’s quarters. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include processing of food and related products; catering establishments; slaughter houses 
and meat packing; weaving or production of textiles or apparel; lumber mills, pulp and paper mills 
and other wood products manufacturing; woodworking, including cabinet makers; production of 
chemical, rubber, leather, clay, bone, plastic, stone, or glass materials or products; movie production 
facilities; concrete batching and asphalt mixing; electric power generation plants; production or 
fabrication of metals or metal products including enameling and galvanizing; manufacture or 
assembly of machinery, equipment, instruments (including musical instruments), vehicles, appliances, 
precision items and other electrical items; production of artwork and toys; sign making; and 
production of prefabricated structures, including manufactured homes. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Manufacturing of goods to be sold primarily on-site and to the general public are classified as 
Retail Sales and Service. 
b. 
Manufacture and production of goods from composting organic material is classified as Waste-
Related uses. 
c. 
Manufacturing that occurs in a small office-type setting is considered Office and Personal 
Service. 
C. 
Warehouse and Freight Movement  
1. 
Characteristics 
Warehouse and Freight Movement firms are involved in the storage or movement of goods for 
themselves or other firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except 
for some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with the customer present. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses may include offices, truck fleet parking and maintenance areas. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include separate warehouses used by retail stores such as furniture and appliance stores; 
household moving and general freight storage; cold storage plants (including frozen food lockers); 
storage of weapons and ammunition; major wholesale distribution centers; truck or air freight 
terminals; bus barns; parcel services; major post offices; grain terminals; and the stockpiling of sand, 
gravel, or other aggregate materials.  
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Uses that involve the transfer or storage of solid or liquid wastes are classified as Waste-Related 
uses. 
b. 
Mini-warehouses are classified as Self-Service Storage uses. 
D. 
Waste-Related 
1. 
Characteristics 
