CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-18 
(4) 
Roof-mounted antennas shall be located as far away as feasible from the edge of the 
building.  Antennas attached to the building should be painted or otherwise treated to 
match the exterior of the building; 
(5) 
Equipment shelters and antennas shall not extend more than ten (10) feet from the top of 
the building.  Any deviation from this standard shall be reviewed and approved, 
disapproved, or approved with conditions; 
(6) 
Be located in areas where the existing topography, vegetation, buildings, or other structures 
provide screening; and 
(7) 
The applicant/developer shall be required to structurally design the footing of the tower or 
antenna to support a tower or antenna which is at least fifteen (15) feet higher than that 
proposed by the applicant to accommodate co-locations.  
l. 
Landscaping and Screening  
The property on which a telecommunication facility or tower is located shall be landscaped and 
screened as follows:  
(1) 
A free-standing Tower or Telecommunication Facility shall include landscaping planted and 
maintained according to an approved landscaping plan and be subject to the screening 
requirements of Section 8.02. 
m. 
Lighting and Signage 
(1) 
Only lighting required by a federal agency is allowed.  The location of the lighting fixture(s) 
shall be such that the lights do not shine directly on any public right-of-way and that the 
light emitted is otherwise in compliance with this LDC.  
(2) 
Only signage that is required by state or federal law is allowed.  No advertising shall be 
permitted. 
n. 
Exterior Tower or Telecommunication Facility Equipment Building(s) or Cabinet(s)  
Exterior tower or telecommunication facility equipment building(s) or cabinet(s) shall not contain 
more than four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area, shall not be more than twelve (12) 
feet in height, and shall maintain the minimum setback, landscaping, and screening 
requirements of the zone in which it is located.  
o. 
Modification or Demolition   
Any Tower or Telecommunications Facilities being modified, demolished, or rebuilt shall be 
brought into compliance with the standards adopted in this LDC. 
p. 
Maintenance    
Every owner of a Tower or Telecommunications Facility shall take special care to operate, repair, 
and maintain all such facilities so as to prevent failures and accidents which cause damage, 
injuries, or nuisances to the neighborhood and public.  All wires, cables, fixtures and other 
equipment shall be installed in compliance with the requirements of the National Electric Safety 
Code; all FCC, FAA, state and local regulations, and in such a manner that will not interfere with 
radio communications, electronic transmissions, or all other electromagnetic communications or 
otherwise cause a safety hazard. 
q. 
Review   
Each new tower or facility will be subject to a two (2)-year review by the Director.  The review will 
determine whether or not the originally approved number of antenna and design are still 
appropriate and necessary to provide adequate communications services. 
r. 
Abandonment  
The wireless telecommunication facility owner shall remove all wireless telecommunications 
facilities that are not in use for any six (6)-month period, within three (3) months of the end of such 
six (6)-month abandonment.  As a part of such removal, the owner shall revegetate the site so 
