CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-16 
8. 
Facade colors shall be low reflectance, subtle, neutral, or earth tone colors. The use of high intensity 
colors, metallic colors, black, or fluorescent colors is discouraged. 
9. 
Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors, including primary colors. 
10. Predominant exterior building materials shall not include the following: 
a. 
Smooth-faced concrete block; 
b. 
Smooth-faced tilt-up concrete panels; or 
c. 
Pre-fabricated steel panels. 
11. Each principal building on a site shall have clearly defined, highly visible customer entrances featuring 
no less than three (3) of the following: 
a. 
Canopies or porticos; 
b. 
Overhangs; 
c. 
Recesses/projections; 
d. 
Arcades; 
e. 
Raised corniced parapets over the door; 
f. 
Peaked roof forms; 
g. 
Arches; 
h. 
Outdoor patios; 
i. 
Display windows; 
j. 
Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which are integrated into the building 
structure and design; and 
k. 
Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped areas and/or places for sitting. 
SECTION 8.05 |  OUTDOOR STORAGE, TRASH COLLECTION AND LOADING AREAS 
A. 
Standards 
The following standards shall apply in all Nonresidential and Multi-family Residential Zoning Districts.  
1. 
Areas for truck parking and loading shall be screened by a combination of structures and evergreen 
landscaping, to minimize visibility from adjacent streets and neighboring urban residentially zoned 
properties. 
2. 
Areas for outdoor storage, trash collection or compaction, loading, or other such uses shall be located 
in the rear of the lot. If that is not feasible, then the side yard may be used, but in no case shall such 
areas be located within twenty (20) feet of any public street, public sidewalk, or internal pedestrian 
walkway. 
3. 
Outdoor storage, HVAC equipment, trash collection, trash compaction, and other service functions 
shall be incorporated into the overall design of the building and the landscaping plan. Views of these 
areas shall be screened from visibility from all property lines and separated from pedestrian areas.  
4. 
Non-enclosed areas for the storage and sale of seasonal inventory shall be permanently screened 
with walls and/or fences. Materials, colors, and design of screening walls and/or fences shall conform 
to those used as in the principal structure. If such areas are to be covered, then the covering shall 
conform to the exposed roofing colors on the building. 
5. 
No delivery, loading, trash removal or compaction, or other such operations shall be permitted 
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless the applicant submits evidence that sound 
barriers between all areas for such operations effectively reduce noise emissions to a level of forty-five 
(45) db, as measured at the lot line of any adjoining property. 
6. 
All trash collection and loading areas shall be located and designed to ensure adequate on-site 
