CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-40 
7. 
Appeal 
Appeals of decisions of the Director may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in 
accordance with the procedures of Section 4.02. 
F. 
Expiration of Previously Approved Planned Unit Developments 
If an Official Development Plan for a PUD that was approved before the effective date of this LDC (January 
14, 2020) lapses or has lapsed prior to adoption of this LDC, the subject property shall be governed by the 
regulations of the zoning district that existed on the property immediately before approval of the PUD. 
Applications to rezone such property to a zoning district that is consistent with the Mesa County Master Plan 
shall be accepted without the payment of a fee. If a previously approved Official Development Plan 
expires, the Director shall record a lapse of approval affidavit with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder. 
Within five (5) years of recording of such an affidavit, the Director shall initiate action to rezone the property 
to a zoning district that is consistent with the Mesa County Master Plan, in accordance with the Rezoning 
procedure of Section 4.15. 
SECTION 4.13 | PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS  
A. 
Applicability 
This subsection applies to Property Line Adjustments between adjacent parcels whether the parcels are 
platted or unplatted.  
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-19 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Property Line Adjustment 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-19: Summary of the Property Line Adjustment Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
C. 
Eligibility: 
1. 
Properties must be of sufficient size to allow for installation of a waste water system; 
2. 
Minimum lot frontage as stated in Chapter 5, is not required if legal access to a public road for all 
parcels or lots resulting from the Property Line Adjustment is provided; and 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.13 D. The decision shall be in 
writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
