CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-10
E.
Appeals
Appeals of decisions of the Floodplain Administrator’s may be taken to the Floodplain Board of Appeals in
accordance with the procedures of Section 4.08.
F.
Approval/Lapse of Approval
An approved Floodplain Development Permit shall be valid for a period of one (1) year from the date of
issuance. If construction has not been commenced and diligently pursued during the one (1) year period,
the permit shall lapse and be of no further effect. An extension of a Floodplain Development Permit shall
require review and approval of a new permit, pursuant to the procedures of this section.
SECTION 4.08 | FLOODPLAIN VARIANCES 
A.
Applicability
The Floodplain Board of Appeals is authorized to grant variances from the floodplain standards of this LDC,
unless a variance is specifically prohibited. The granting of a floodplain variance shall not be contrary to
the public interest or the purposes of this LDC where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this LDC would result in unnecessary physical (not economic) hardship to the property
owner.
B.
Procedure
Figure 4-5 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of a Floodplain Variance applications.
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-5: Summary of the Floodplain Variance Procedure 
STEP
6
Floodplain 
Board of 
Appeals Action
STEP
5
Floodplain 
Administrator 
Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
C.
Approval Criteria
In evaluating the proposed request, the Floodplain Regulations of Section 8.14; all technical evaluations;
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Floodplain Administrator. The submitted application 
shall include all materials specified in the checklist provided by the 
Floodplain Administrator. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall distribute the application to the 
appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall review the request based on the 
Approval Criteria under Section 4.08 C. and shall prepare a staff 
report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing and, at 
the close of the public hearing, act to approve, approve with 
conditions, or deny the application, based on the Approval Criteria of 
Section 4.08 E. 
