CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-13 
subdivisions shall be required as per Table 8-7; 
2. 
Designated trash collection area meeting the requirements of this LDC shall be required; and 
3. 
Multi-family development shall provide common area or open space as per Section 8.06.  
P. 
Manufactured Home Park 
Manufactured home parks shall be subject to the standards listed below: 
1. 
Site Area 
A manufactured home park shall be a minimum of two (2) acres. 
2. 
Density 
Density standards of the underlying zoning district shall apply. 
3. 
Setbacks  
Minimum setbacks and separation shall be as follows: 
a. 
Property boundary : twenty (20) feet 
b. 
Street (public): twenty-five (25) feet  
c. 
Interior street (private): ten (10) feet 
d. 
Separation between manufactured homes: fifteen (15) feet  
e. 
Separation between manufactured homes and other structures: fifteen (15) feet 
4. 
Streets 
Each manufactured home space within a manufactured home park shall abut and have access to a 
private street or drive that complies with the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction 
and all other applicable standards of this LDC. 
5. 
Parking 
Off-street parking shall be provided for each manufactured home, in accordance with the parking 
requirements for multi-family dwellings. All required parking spaces shall be paved. Off-street parking 
spaces shall be uniformly distributed through the manufactured home park. 
Q. 
Oil and Gas Drilling  
Oil, gas, and other drilling operations, on public or private lands, shall be subject to the standards below: 
1. 
Financial assurance 
a. 
The Director may require that the applicant provide financial assurance adequate to ensure that: 
(1) 
Any structures or roads necessary to mitigate the impacts of the operation on nearby 
properties, will be constructed at those times stated in any related condition attached to 
the Site Plan; and  
(2) 
Any actions required to remove equipment, structures, or roads, or to otherwise rehabilitate 
the site after the end of drilling operations will be taken at those times stated in any related 
condition attached to the Site Plan.  
b. 
Adequate financial security may include a deposit of money, an irrevocable bond, or letter of 
credit backed by a reputable bank or financial institution, as determined by the County, or 
another form of financial security acceptable to the County. The amount of financial security 
required shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five (125) percent of the estimated costs of taking 
the actions that it secures. The Director shall be authorized to execute a partial release or to 
reduce the amount of the financial assurance from time to time as required construction or 
rehabilitation activities are completed. The Director shall release all or any remaining amounts of 
any financial assurance within thirty (30) days after completion of the last construction or 
rehabilitation action that the financial assurance secures. 
