CHAPTER 9 | SIGNS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
9-3 
5. 
The total surface area of one (1) sign face of free-standing signs, roof signs and projecting wall signs 
shall be counted as the maximum total surface area allowance. Off-premise signs shall not be 
counted in maximum square foot allowance. 
6. 
Illumination of all signs shall comply with the following standards: 
a. 
The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded and directed that the light intensity 
does not generate glare onto nearby residential areas between the hours of 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. 
b. 
Neither the direct nor the reflected light from primary light sources shall create a traffic hazard to 
operators of motor vehicles on public thoroughfares or approaches to public thoroughfares, as 
determined by the Department of Public Works. 
c. 
No exposed reflective type bulbs or incandescent lamps which exceed forty (40) watts shall be 
used on the exterior surface of a sign. 
7. 
Each sign requiring a permit hereafter erected or remodeled shall bear, in a permanent position, an 
identification plate stating the date the sign was erected and the name of person, firm or entity 
responsible for the construction and erection. 
8. 
Touching up, repainting or changing existing letters, text, symbols, graphics, or other content, that 
does not alter the existing sign area, is considered maintenance and repair and does not require a 
permit. 
SECTION 9.07 | RURAL AND URBAN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS 
Signs shall be allowed in Rural and Urban Residential zoning districts in accordance with the standards of this 
section. 
A. 
Sign Types Allowed  
1. 
A bulletin sign, not to exceed twenty-five (25) square feet per face, may be erected upon the premise 
of any public institution for the purpose of displaying the name of the institution and its activities or 
services. 
2. 
One identification sign shall be allowed for each entrance to a subdivision, institutional or multi-family 
development, provided  that: 
a. 
Such sign shall not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet per face; 
b. 
If lighted, such sign shall utilize indirect illumination only. 
B. 
Location  
Permitted signs may be located anywhere on the property.  
C. 
Height  
The height of free-standing signs shall not exceed ten (10) feet. If building mounted, the sign shall be flush 
mounted and shall not be mounted on a roof of the building or project above the roof line. 
D. 
Illumination  
Only indirect or internal illumination shall be used for letter faces and logos. 
SECTION 9.08 | AFT ZONING DISTRICT 
The following signs shall be allowed for nonresidential uses in the AFT zoning district. 
A. 
Allowed Sign Area  
A total of thirty-two (32) square feet of signage shall be allowed for each nonresidentially used property. 
Total signage allowed may be divided between flush wall and freestanding signage. Allowed signage for 
uses that require approval of a Conditional Use Permit shall meet the standards set forth under Section 4.03. 
B. 
Flush Wall Signs  
1. 
Flush wall signs may be placed on a building facade that faces a dedicated public street. 
