CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-28 
secondary or minor parts of the operation but necessary functions of the operation. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include breeding or raising of fowl or other animals; dairy farms; commercial boarding 
stables; farming, orchards, vineyards, truck gardening, forestry, forestry support services, tree farming; 
wineries, breweries and distilleries; agricultural support businesses; agricultural production 
greenhouses; aquaculture; and wholesale plant nurseries. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Processing of animal or plant products that is the primary use of the operation on the premises 
are classified as Manufacturing and Production. 
b. 
Livestock auctions are classified as Wholesale Sales. 
c. 
Commercial riding academies, roping arenas and equestrian arenas are classified as Recreation 
and Entertainment, Outdoor.  Personal arenas are an accessory use. 
d. 
Animal Care/Boarding/Sales, excluding boarding stables, are classified as Office and Personal 
Service. 
e. 
The keeping of exotic animals is considered Animal Care/Boarding/Sales. 
f. 
Retail plant nurseries are considered Landscaping Materials Sales, classified as Retail Sales and 
Service. 
g. Farmer’s Markets are Retails Sales and Service.  
5. 
Agritourism 
As an accessory use to an agriculturally based operation or activity at a working farm, vineyard, 
orchard or ranch, conducted for the enjoyment, education, or active involvement of visitors that adds 
to the economic viability of the agricultural operation. Agritourism activities are accessory to, and 
directly supportive of the agricultural use on the property. Activities or frequencies outside of the 
examples listed below and any use that is not accessory to the agricultural use on the property shall 
follow all other standards and requirements found in this LDC. 
a. 
Examples 
(1) 
U-Pick orchard or farm.  
(2) 
Truck and flower garden with direct sale to customers. 
(3) 
Production, manufacture and direct sales of value-added products derived, in whole or 
in part, from produce grown on site. 
(4) 
Outdoor events relating to the principle agricultural use:  
(a) 
The allowed number of attendees shall be calculated as follows: 
a. 
Up to twenty-five (25) attendees for the first two (2) acres and fifteen (15) 
additional attendees for each additional acre up to a maximum of two 
hundred-five (205) attendees; and 
b. 
If the number of attendees is greater than allowed by the calculation above, 
the use shall be considered a Minor Entertainment Event; 
(b) 
The allowed number of outdoor events will be: 
a. 
Limited to 4 per month, not to exceed 24 per year, and 
b. 
If the number of outdoor events is greater than allowed by the above, the use 
shall be considered a Minor Entertainment Event; 
(5) 
Hayrides, pumpkin patches, mazes, etc.  
(6) 
Experiential Lodging: 
(a) 
Maximum number of lodging units shall be no greater than one (1) lodging unit per 
one (1) acre in agricultural production up to a maximum of ten (10) lodging units; 
