CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-24 
c. 
Building Style and Design 
These standards apply only to building facades facing collector or arterial streets. The inclusion 
of projected and recessed elements to provide architectural variety, such as entryways, special 
functional areas, rooflines, decorative treatments such as murals, and other features will help to 
meet the design intent.  
(1) 
Where the construction of a blank or windowless wall facing a collector or arterial street is 
necessary, the wall shall be articulated or enhanced using architectural features and 
landscaping.  
(2) 
Where walls facing collector or arterial streets are more than fifty (50) feet long, offsets in 
wall plane or roof line or features such as porches or recessed entries shall be used to break 
up the wall. 
(3) 
The facades of buildings facing collector or arterial streets shall be architecturally finished or 
detailed. Examples include but are not limited to wall cladding with materials such as brick, 
decorative block, stone, or stucco; applied trim such as wainscoting and columns; 
contrasting trim details or two-tone color schemes; cornices and applied decorative 
features; murals or artwork; and similar design elements. 
(4) 
A setback of fifty (50) feet or more, combined with the use of topography and other 
screening methods that substantially block the view of the building from the street, may be 
used to satisfy the standards listed above. 
d. 
Screening 
(1) 
Visual and acoustic mitigation alternatives shall be incorporated into the development 
through the use of built or natural screening along collector streets and pedestrian 
environments and adjacent to residential uses. 
(2) 
All mechanical and utility equipment shall be screened from view from collector streets and 
residential uses. 
e. 
Fencing, Walls, and Berms: 
Fencing, walls, and berms are required as buffers to different uses and shall be integrated into 
the industrial development and surrounding uses. Security fencing shall meet all design standards 
set forth. The use of high quality fence materials, such as decorative blocks, brick, stone, treated 
wood, and ornamental metal, is encouraged at key locations where such designs can provide 
the most benefit with respect to screening of outdoor storage and parking from adjacent uses, 
intersections and other high-visibility areas.  
BB. Vacation Rentals 
The vacation rental of a private residence, either as a whole or as an individual room, shall be subject to 
the following requirements. 
1. 
Vacation rentals shall be subject to Site Plan Review.  
2. 
Short-term rentals shall be permitted in single-family dwellings (attached and detached), townhomes, 
accessory dwelling units and owner-occupied duplexes. 
a. 
The maximum length of stay shall be less than thirty (30) consecutive days. 
b. 
Only structures permitted for residential occupancy shall be used as vacation rentals. Tents, 
recreational vehicles, temporary shelters and other provisions intended for temporary 
occupancy are not allowed as guest accommodations.  
3. 
Maximum occupancy of a vacation rental shall be determined at the time of site plan approval based 
on the number of parking spaces and bedrooms. 
4. 
Residential dwellings that are used for vacation rentals shall meet Building Code requirements for 
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors. No room shall be rented that does not meet egress 
requirements. 
