CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-25 
or a bond shall be posted in a form acceptable to the County, prior to the issuance of a development 
permit, or the recording of a final plat or plan, and shall be utilized by the Board of County Commissioners 
to contract for and construct such connection if the applicant fails to comply with the provisions of this 
paragraph. New developments shall be subject to the Mesa County Sewer Trunk Line Extension Policy. 
B. 
Service by Other Systems  
1. 
If a proposed development is located within the service area of an existing wastewater collection and 
treatment system other than those listed in Section 8.11 A., and if that system is willing and able to 
provide sewage collection and treatment service to the development, then the development must 
provide for hook-up to that system. 
2. 
If, in the opinion of the Colorado Department of Health, it would be appropriate for a development 
to obtain sewage collection and treatment service from an existing system by an enlargement of the 
capacity of that system, then the development shall be required to obtain services from that system; 
provided that the cost of the development’s hook-up is roughly proportional to the cost of the increase 
in capacity.  
C. 
Development Outside Service Areas  
Any development that is outside the service area of an existing system, that proposes to provide sewage 
disposal by the creation of a new system, or the expansion of an existing system, shall create a Metropolitan 
District, Sanitation District or Water/Sanitation District, or local sewer improvement district, or other public 
legal entity. 
D. 
Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems 
All onsite wastewater treatment systems, where allowed, shall be located, installed, and operated in 
accordance with the regulations of the Colorado Department of Health and the requirements of the Mesa 
County Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Regulations.  
1. 
The following minimum lot sizes and dimensional standards for Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems 
(OWTS) apply to all newly created lots:  
a. 
The minimum lot size for all development applications (except site plans) served by OWTS and a 
public water system shall be one (1) acre.  
b. 
All lots within proposed major subdivisions, planned unit developments, or administrative review 
applications served by OWTS and a public water system must meet the requirements of the Mesa 
County Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Regulations (May 23, 2019, as amended). 
2. 
Lots not served by a public water system: 
The minimum lot size for a lot not served by public water service and/or utilizing wells, springs, or cisterns 
shall be based on the Colorado Department of Natural Resources well permit requirements, or as 
required by engineered OWTS design, or one (1) acre, whichever is greater. 
3. 
Existing lots served by Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems: 
Existing lots that do not conform to the minimum standards of this Section shall not be made more 
nonconforming by a Property Line Adjustment. 
4. 
If the provisions of this Section conflict with zoning district standards or other provisions of the Land 
Development Code, the minimum lot size shall default to the larger lot size. 
5. 
Existing lots (uses) may request a deviation from the standards of this Section 8.11, subject to approval 
from the Director. 
SECTION 8.12 | MONUMENTATION 
Monuments shall be provided for all Major Subdivision Plats and Administrative Reviews. They shall be set pursuant 
to Colorado Revised Statutes 38-51. Materials Specifications shall be as required by Colorado Revised Statutes and 
the Mesa County surveyor. In addition to any other requirements of a plat permitted or required by this LDC, all plats 
shall meet the minimum standards for land survey plats, as defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 38-51-102(12) and 
as provided in Colorado Revised Statutes 38-51-106, and shall include all recorded or apparent rights-of-way and 
