the same person. Burning in excess of these daily limits shall be presumed to constitute
a nuisance and be subject to GJMC 8.08.010 (NUISANCE).
2. Burning of vegetative material shall be allowed during a two-month window in the spring
and a one-month window in the fall as determined by the Fire Chief and stated on the
annual burn permit.
3. Burning of vegetative material shall be conducted at least 50 feet from any structure
(including combustible fences), occupied dwelling(s), workplace (s), or any other
place(s) where people congregate, which is on property owned by or under possessory
control of, another person.
4. Burning of vegetative material shall begin no earlier than one hour after sunrise and
shall be extinguished no later than one hour before sunset.
5. Burning shall at all times be attended by a competent person until fully extinguished
and the person shall be in immediate possession of a valid burn permit.
6. The attendant to the burning shall have an adequate extinguishing source
available for immediate use sufficient for the type and size of the fire as determined
in the sole discretion of the fire code official or his designee.
7. The owner or agent shall notify the Grand Junction Fire Department or its designee
prior to burning by obtaining a valid open burn permit for the time period in which
the burning is taking place.
8. The burning ofvegetative material in excess of1-inch in diameter is prohibited.
9. The burning of tree stumps, grass clippings and leaves (volume of leaves must not
exceed 3 cubic feet) is prohibited.
10. No person shall burn upon the land of another without permission of the owner
thereof.
11. The vegetative material to be burned shall be as dry as practical.
12. Burning ofvegetative material is prohibited in the event of the State and/or Mesa
County imposing ozone, PM 10, 2.5 or other nonattainment area(s) restrictions or
otherwise declaring a "no burn" day on a "high pollution day" as defined by GJMC
8.20.030 or the imposition of any other general or specific air quality controls.
307.4.7 Prescribed burns. Prescribed burns kindled for fire fuels management, as back
fires to prevent or control wildfire, recognized silvicultural or range or wildlife management
practices, and prevention or control of disease or pests or for other fires similar in nature
may be allowed by the fire code official on a case-by-case basis when the prescribed
burn or burning is i) permitted in advance and ii) the permitee does not deviate from the
activity specific permit requirements required by the fire code official.
