P2904 the fire code official is authorized to allow a dead-end fire apparatus road
to extend to 300 feet before a turnaround is required.
Section 503.2.9 Add a new Section 503.2.9 to read as follows:
Section 503.2.9 Loop Lanes. Loop lanes as defined and regulated by the Grand Junction
Zoning and Development Code, are considered an alternative street design that provides a
turnaround in place of a cul-de-sac. Loop lanes shall comply with the following standards:
1. The loop lane shall be a minimum sixteen feet (16') wide from flow line to flow line and
shall consist of an all-weather driving surface capable of supporting fire apparatus
equipment as determined by the fire code official. The flow line is the area between
the curbs or the equivalent if curbs are not present.
2. No curve on any portion of the flow line of the loop lane shall have an inside radius of
less than thirty-three feet (33') and an outside radius of less than forty- eight feet (48').
The entire design must demonstrate that the department's fire apparatus design
vehicle can successfully navigate the turn-radius.
3. No portion of the loop lane shall extend more than 250 feet from the abutting street right-
of-way.
4. A minimum separation of sixty-six feet (66') is required between the right-of-way on
each side of the loop.
5. The loop lane shall be dedicated to and maintained by the City.
6. No parking signs shall be installed and maintained so that no parking is allowed
between the curbs on any travelled portion of the loop lane.
7. Two-way traffic is allowed on the loop lane.
8. No gateways, locked entries or other access constraints are allowed across the loop
lane.
9. Loop lanes are considered fire apparatus roads and shall be developed in accordance
with Chapter 5 and Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D as determined by the
fire code official.
10. Individual driveways located off loop lanes shall be developed in accordance with
Chapter 5 and Appendix B, Appendix C and Appendix D when the residential
structure is located in excess of 150 feet from the loop lane as determined by the
fire code official.
Section 503.2.10 Add a new Section 503.2.10 to read as follows:
Section 503.2.10 Shared Driveways. Shared driveways shall comply with the following
