Section 307.4 Specific Requirements.
307.4.1 Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of a structure,
property line, or combustible material (including combustible fences). Conditions which could
cause a fire to spread within 50 feet (15 240 mm) surrounding the bonfire shall be eliminated
prior to ignition. The total fuel area of a bonfire shall not be greater than 8 feet (2440 mm) in
diameter and 4 feet (1220 mm) in height unless approved by the fire code official.
307.4.2 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet
(7620 mm) of structure, property line, or combustible material (including combustible
fences). Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a
structure, property line or combustible material (including combustible fence) shall be
eliminated prior to ignition. The total fuel area of a recreational fire shall not be greater than
3 feet (914 mm) or less in diameter and 2 feet (61 Omm) or less in height.
307.4.3 Portable outdoor fireplaces. Portable outdoor fireplaces burning gas or wood
shall not be used within 15 feet (3048 mm) of structure, property line, or combustible
material (including combustible fences). Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within
15 feet (3048 mm) of a structure, property lineorcombustible material (including combustible
fence) shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
307.4.4 Fire Pit, Non-Portable Wood Burning. Fire Pit (non-portable wood burning) shall
be regulated as recreational fires and shall not be conducted within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a
structure, property line, or combustible material (including combustible fences). Conditions
which could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet (7620 mm) of a structure, property line or
combustible material (including combustible fence) shall be eliminated prior to ignition. The
total fuel area of a fire pit (non-portable wood burning) shall not be greater than 3 feet (914
mm) or less in diameter and 2 feet (610 mm) or less in height.
307.4.5 Permanent Fire Pit or Fireplace. Permanent fire pit or fireplaces burning gas or
wood shall not be operated within 5 feet of a structure, property line, or combustible material
(including combustible fences). Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within 5 feet of
a structure, property line or combustible material (including combustible fence) shall be
eliminated prior to ignition.
307.4.6 General and Agricultural Open Burning. When burning vegetative materials as
defined by this code, a permit is required, and the activities shall maintain strict adherence to
the permit issued by the Grand Junction Fire Department or their designee in accordance with
the Grand Junction Municipal Code and the most recently adopted version of the International
Fire Code as amended.
1. Open burning of vegetative material for the purposes of disposal of such material that
originated on the property, provided that burning of areas with non-piled vegetative
material occurs on a parcel of land 1 acre or greater (or if less than 1 acre the burning
is only to maintain irrigation or drainage ditches/laterals) and that the burning by the
owner/agent does not exceed ten (10) acres per day, or burning of piled vegetative
material does not exceed 250 cubic feet of pile volume per day. In determining acreage,
daily burn area and daily burn pile volume, property, areas or piles that are within three
hundred feet of each other shall be considered to constitute a single burn if the burning
occurs on the same day and on a property under ownership or possessory control of
