Section 307. Amend Section 307 to read as follows:
SECTION 307
Outdoor Burning
Section 307.1 General. A person shall not kindle or maintain or authorize to be kindled or
maintained any outdoor burning or open burning unless conducted and approved in
accordance with Sections 307.1.1 through 307.7.
Any open burning not expressly allowed, not expressly prohibited, or not otherwise specifically
addressed under section 307 or8.08.010 (NUISANCES) shall be conducted only pursuant to
GJMC Chapter 15.44 and pursuant to and in accordance with a permit issued by the Grand
Junction Fire Department (GJFD) or its designee. Instructions and stipulations of the permit
shall be adhered to.
Open burning as allowed or prohibited in Section 307 is not considered a stationary
source for purposes of applicability of other air quality regulations.
Open burning regulations do not extend to indoor burning practices which are subject to the
requirements stated in the most recently adopted version of the International Fire Code (IFC)
and/or by City ordinance.
Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an existing or proposed burning activity
which are not specifically provided for by Section 307 or by the most recently adopted version
of the International Fire Code (IFC) shall be determined by the Fire Code Official.
Section 307.1.1 Prohibited open burning.
Section 307.1.1.1. Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires, portable outdoor fireplaces, fire
pits (non-portable wood burning), and permanent fire pits and fireplaces shall be prohibited
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. Burning
is not permitted when sustained winds exist or when a red flag warning or a fire weather watch
condition has been issued by the National Weather Service.
Exception:
1. Permanent fire pits and fireplaces or portable outdoor fireplaces operated with LP-
gas containers.
2. Prescribed burning for the purposes of reducing the impact ofwildland fire when
authorized by the fire code official.
Section 307.1.1.2. The burning of household waste or rubbish is prohibited including, but not
limited to:
(a) Natural or synthetic rubber products, including tire(s);
(b) Waste oil and/or used oil filters and waste automotive, machine fluid or lubricant,
pesticide, herbicide and/or any other chemical, process fluid or the constituents
thereof;
(c) Insulated wire;
(d) Plastic, including polyvinyle chloride ("PVC") pipe, tubing, and connectors;
