307.5 Attendance. Open burning, bonfires, recreational fires, portable outdoor
fireplaces, fire pits (non-portable wood burning) and permanent fire pits and fireplaces
shall be constantly attended by a competent person (adult) until the fire is extinguished.
Not fewer than one portable fire extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a minimum
4" A rating or other approved on-site fire extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand,
water barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate utilization. The
extinguishing source must be sufficient for the type and size of fire.
307.6 Unrestricted fires. Permit(s) not required:
1. Maintenance of canals, irrigation and drainage ditches owned and/or operated by
a Drainage District or Canal and/or Irrigation Company or District. Such burning
shall be regulated as General or Agricultural Open Burning.
2. Agricultural Burns as permitted by Mesa County and State of Colorado regulations.
Agricultural burns shall be for management, control or eradication of pestilence,
plague and/or other disease, insects, vermin or other agricultural emergency(ies).
The owner of the property on which the burn is to occur shall make notification to
the fire department when an agricultural burn permit has issued and when the
burning is to take place. The parameters set forth in the permit shall be adhered
to.
3. Cooking fires:
a. Open-flame cooking devices in the form of LP-gas or charcoal burner grills that
are subject to regulatory and safety provisions stated in the most recently
adopted IFC.
b. Solid-wood fueled cooking fires utilized in outdoor kitchens (permanent
masonry fireplaces/pizza ovens), barbecue (also BBQ) smoke houses, BBQ
smokers and in-ground cooking pits or devices.
4. Propane or natural gas burning permanent or portable fireplaces and fire pits shall
be used in accordance with manufacturers specifications.
5. Recreational fires as defined herein.
6. Portable outdoor fireplaces as defined herein.
7. Fire pits (non-portaNe wood burning) as defined herein.
8. Permanent fire pits and fireplaces as defined herein.
9. Recreational fires located in developed municipal, county, or state approved picnic
or campground areas contained in portable or non-portable fire pits or fire grates
furnished at the picnic or campground area.
10. Other liquid-fueled or gas fueled open-flame devices in the form of heaters and
