 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of Hemodialysis 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what 
hemodialysis is and who performs it. 
 
Hemodialysis is a form of dialysis in which a patient’s blood is filtered to remove waste 
products and excess fluids, such as nitrogen waste (also referred to as urea), muscle 
waste (also referred to as creatinine), and various acids. This is a process that is 
performed naturally by the kidneys, but hemodialysis may be needed if a patient has a 
condition that prevents the kidneys from functioning properly. 2 Additionally, 
hemodialysis helps to ensure the patient’s regulation of blood pressure and helps to 
maintain safe levels of minerals in the blood (such as potassium, calcium, sodium, and 
bicarbonate).3 
 
In dialysis, a machine performs the function of the kidneys by filtering the blood. In 
order to get the blood to the machine, a surgeon may perform a minor surgery to make 
an opening in a blood vessel, typically in the patient's arm, referred to as a vascular 
access.4 
 
The patient’s blood is pumped out of the body and into a filtration device called a 
dialyzer, which removes impurities from the blood. The cleansed blood is then pumped 
back into the patient’s body.5 
 
Although some dialysis patients undergo treatment in the home, many patients receive 
treatment in an outpatient dialysis clinic three times a week. Each session lasts from 
three to four hours.6 
 
There are two types of hemodialysis technicians that work within dialysis facilities: 
Nephrology Biomedical Technologists (NBTs) and Nephrology Clinical Technicians 
(NCTs). 
 
2 Cleveland Clinic. Hemodialysis. Retrieved September 5, 2025, from 
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/24472-hemodialysis 
3 National Kidney Foundation. Hemodialysis. Retrieved September 5, 2025, from https://www.kidney.org/kidney-
topics/hemodialysis 
4 National Kidney Foundation. Hemodialysis. Retrieved September 5, 2025, from https://www.kidney.org/kidney-
topics/hemodialysis 
5 Cleveland Clinic. Hemodialysis. Retrieved September 5, 2025, from 
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/24472-hemodialysis 
6 Cleveland Clinic. Hemodialysis. Retrieved September 5, 2025, from 
https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/treatments/24472-hemodialysis 
