 
 
7 | P a g e 
NBTs are responsible for maintaining the equipment utilized in hemodialysis treatments 
and may obtain national certification to demonstrate that they understand best 
practices and possess necessary skills to perform their work with minimal competency.7 
 
NCTs provide necessary services to ensure that dialysis treatments are performed 
properly. The duties of an NCT typically include:8 
 
• Setting the dialysis machine to meet the prescription provided by a 
Nephrologist, 
• Monitoring the dialysis treatment, 
• Recording the patient’s health information every 30 minutes, and  
• Ensuring that safety measures are in place during the treatment. 
 
The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) set standards for dialysis 
clinics and clinic personnel, including hemodialysis technicians. 
 
For example, CMS requires hemodialysis clinics to maintain accurate and complete 
medical records,9 maintain elements of patient safety including infection control,10 
water quality available at clinics,11 and the physical environment within clinics.12 
 
Under CMS rule, prospective hemodialysis technicians must complete specific 
requirements, including:13 
 
• Possess a high school diploma or equivalency; 
• Complete a training program approved by the medical director of the clinic under 
the direction of a registered nurse, which focuses on the operation of dialysis 
equipment, patient care, and interpersonal skills; 
• Maintain certification with a state or national commercially available 
certification program; and  
• Meet any state requirements regarding education, training, credentialling, 
competency, or standards of practice. 
 
In Colorado, dialysis clinics are licensed to ensure that they meet both state and federal 
standards and requirements. Hemodialysis technicians are not regulated by the State, 
but their credentials are verified as a part of the clinic licensing process.  
 
7 American Association of Kidney Patients. Dialysis Technicians—an essential part of your healthcare team. 
Retrieved September 9, 2025, from https://aakp.org/dialysis-technicians-an-essential-part-of-your-healthcare-
team 
8 American Association of Kidney Patients. Dialysis Technicians—an essential part of your healthcare team. 
Retrieved September 9, 2025, from https://aakp.org/dialysis-technicians-an-essential-part-of-your-healthcare-
team 
9 42 C.F.R. § 494.170 
10 42 C.F.R. § 494.30 
11 42 C.F.R. § 494.40 
12 42 C.F.R. § 494.60 
13 42 C.F.R. § 494.140(e) 
