 
 
9 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Prior to the creation of the hemodialysis technician regulatory program, the Colorado 
Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) conducted four separate 
sunrise reviews of hemodialysis technicians. The 1992 report recommended establishing 
standards for hemodialysis technician education programs. The 1994, 1995, and 2006 
sunset reports recommended against the imposition of any regulations for hemodialysis 
technicians, as it was determined that hemodialysis technicians work under supervision 
in highly regulated environments (i.e., dialysis clinics).  
 
Then, in 2007, the General Assembly established basic requirements for hemodialysis 
technicians through the passage of House Bill 07-1131 (HB 1131), which established 
requirements for hemodialysis technicians as a part of the state’s regulation of dialysis 
clinics. The bill also contained a component which required hemodialysis technicians 
to be credentialed by a national credentialing program, and work under the supervision 
of a licensed physician or licensed professional nurse (RN). The bill further directed the 
State Board of Health to promulgate rules regarding a process for the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) to verify that all hemodialysis 
technicians meet those requirements. 
 
After the 2011 sunset review was conducted, the General Assembly extended the 
regulation of hemodialysis technicians for seven years and added statutory language to 
clarify that CDPHE is required to verify the credentials of hemodialysis technicians as a 
part of its routine surveys of dialysis clinics. 
 
Most recently, the sunset review of hemodialysis technicians conducted in 2018 
concluded that the regulation of these technicians be continued indefinitely. 
Subsequently, the General Assembly continued the regulation of dialysis clinics and 
hemodialysis technicians for seven years, until 2026. 
