 
 
13 | P a g e 
surgical centers, freestanding emergency departments, birth centers, and community 
clinics in addition to dialysis treatment clinics. Therefore, a specific FTE calculation is 
not available. 
 
 
Certification of Hemodialysis Technicians 
 
A dialysis technician is defined in rule as,  
 
A person who is not a physician or a registered nurse and who provides 
dialysis care.24 
 
Any person performing services as a hemodialysis technician must first be credentialed 
by a national credentialing program and be under the supervision of a physician or a 
registered nurse experienced or trained in dialysis treatment.25 
 
Additionally, “national credentialing programs” are any that are utilized for 
credentialing or determining competency of a hemodialysis technician recognized by 
the National Association of Nephrology Technicians/Technologists (NANT) or successor 
organization.26 These include the Certified Clinical Hemodialysis Technician (CCHT) 
examination offered by the Nephrology Nursing Certification Commission and the 
Certified Hemodialysis Technologist/Technician (CHT) examination offered by the 
Board of Nephrology Examiners for Nursing and Technology (BONENT). 
 
CCHT Examination 
In order to be eligible for the CCHT examination, an applicant must meet certain 
eligibility requirements, including, but not limited to:27 
 
• Possess a high school diploma or equivalent; 
• Demonstrate successful completion of a clinical hemodialysis training program, 
which includes both classroom instruction and supervised clinical experience; 
and 
• Provide the number of hours spent providing clinical hands-on patient care 
obtained as a part of a training program if the applicant has not yet obtained a 
position as a clinical hemodialysis technician. 
 
24  6 CCR § 1101-1-2.2.7. Department of Public Health and Environment, Health Facilities and Emergency 
Management Services Division. Standards for Hospitals and Health Facilities: Chapter 15 – Dialysis Treatment 
Clinics. 
25 6 CCR § 1101-1-5.5.1. Department of Public Health and Environment, Health Facilities and Emergency 
Management Services Division. Standards for Hospitals and Health Facilities: Chapter 15 – Dialysis Treatment 
Clinics. 
26 § 25-1.5-108(1)(d), C.R.S. 
27 Nephrology Nursing Certification Commission. CCHT. Retrieved October 7, 2025, from https://www.nncc-
exam.org/certification/ccht 
