 
 
14 | P a g e 
Further, the applicant must be in compliance with federal and state regulations related 
to the practice of hemodialysis patient care technicians. 
 
The CCHT examination contains 150 questions which must be completed within a three-
hour examination period, and the examination fee is $225.28 
 
CHT Examination 
In order to be eligible for the CHT examination, an applicant must meet certain 
eligibility requirements, including, but not limited to:29 
 
• Possess a high school diploma or equivalent; and 
• Demonstrate a minimum of six months of experience in nephrology patient care 
and current active participation in a dialysis facility. 
If the applicant does not possess experience as a patient care technician/technologist, 
they may also apply to complete the examination within two years of completion of a 
BONENT-approved program.  
 
The CHT examination contains 150 multiple-choice questions which must be completed 
within a three-hour examination period,30 and the application fee is $235.31 
 
 
Verification of Hemodialysis Technician Credentials 
 
Individual hemodialysis technicians are not required to apply to CDPHE for licensure or 
certification, and CDPHE does not maintain a registry of credentialed technicians. 
Rather, dialysis treatment clinics are responsible for employing only those hemodialysis 
technicians who have met the credentialing requirement.32 CDPHE must verify that 
licensed clinics are in compliance with this requirement as part of its regulation of such 
clinics.33 
 
The Division does not charge a fee for verification of the credentials of dialysis 
technicians, but the costs associated with staff time in order to verify credentials are 
included in the facility’s licensing fees. 
 
 
 
28 Nephrology Nursing Certification Commission. CCHT. Retrieved October 7, 2025, from https://www.nncc-
exam.org/certification/ccht 
29 Board of Nephrology Examiners Nursing and Technology. Eligibility and Fees. Retrieved October 7, 2025, from 
https://bonent.org/eligibility-fees/ 
30 Board of Nephrology Examiners Nursing and Technology. Eligibility and Fees. Retrieved October 7, 2025, from 
https://bonent.org/certified-hemodialysis-technologist-technician-cht/ 
31 Board of Nephrology Examiners Nursing and Technology. Eligibility and Fees. Retrieved October 7, 2025, from 
https://bonent.org/eligibility-fees/ 
32 § 25-1.5-108(3)(b), C.R.S. 
33 § 25-1.5-108(2), C.R.S. 
