 
 
19 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the regulation of hemodialysis clinics and 
technicians for 11 years, until 2037. 
 
The Division of Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services (Division) within the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment oversees the Dialysis Treatment 
Clinic Program (Program) which licenses hemodialysis treatment clinics to ensure that 
the facilities meet both state and federal standards and requirements. Hemodialysis 
technicians are not regulated by the State, but their credentials are verified as a part 
of the clinic licensing process. 
 
In Colorado, there are currently 83 licensed clinics, with a total of 1,287 procedure 
stations, which include the dialysis machine and the chair in which hemodialysis is 
performed. 
 
For patients utilizing hemodialysis services, the ability to receive treatment is life-
sustaining, and for many, the lack of access to this type of care could be fatal in a 
matter of days or weeks.  As a result, it is critical that hemodialysis services be readily 
available, consistent, and safe. 
 
The Division’s administration of the Program protects consumers from harm by imposing 
clinic licensure requirements and verifying technician credentials to ensure that 
hemodialysis services continue to be delivered with minimal competency and maintain 
alignment with federal requirements. The Division also administers and enforces 
applicable laws by reviewing complaints and may discipline licensed clinics for 
violations including potential revocation for severe violations. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks if regulation is necessary to protect the public health, 
safety, and welfare. Through the application of the regulatory framework established, 
the Division provides effective oversight in order to protect the public interest. 
Therefore, the General Assembly should continue the regulation of hemodialysis clinics 
and technicians for 11 years, until 2037. Due to the lack of issues raised during this 
sunset review, an 11-year continuation is justified. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
