Executive Order D 2026 013 
August 6, 2026 
Page 1 of 5 
D 2026 013 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Accelerating Strategic Economic Development Permitting and Siting 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, 
in particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution, I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order accelerating strategic 
economic development permitting and siting. 
 
Background and Purpose 
Colorado's talented workforce, innovative economy, world-class research institutions, 
and exceptional quality of life have made the State a prime location for economic development. 
It is a top priority for the State to build on these strengths to maintain a competitive economy that 
creates opportunity for Coloradans and keeps Colorado a premier destination for investment. By 
attracting strategic, growing industries that create high-quality, good-paying jobs – such as clean 
energy, semiconductors, quantum, fusion, and more – Colorado can strengthen local 
communities, support working families, and ensure that economic growth delivers prosperity 
across the State.  
In today's nationally competitive environment, the ability to quickly site and permit major 
projects has become a decisive factor in where new jobs, critical infrastructure, and private 
investment are created. Colorado must be able to compete for these opportunities to support its 
residents and communities. In turn, Colorado is undertaking a range of bold efforts to reform 
State permitting and siting for Strategic Industries and provide a transparent, efficient experience 
for applicants, with the goal of furthering Colorado’s competitive advantage relative to other 
states, driving economic opportunity for Coloradans, and laying the foundation for future 
statewide integration efforts.  
In an April 2026 Directive to members of my cabinet, I called on relevant State agencies 
to improve permitting efficiency for electrification and emissions reduction projects. Building on 
the April Directive, this Executive Order directs relevant State agencies to create the first version 
of what can eventually become a single statewide online portal for all permitting processes 
impacting Strategic Industries. This Executive Order further directs relevant agencies to engage 
in a series of modernization improvements, including digitizing their operations, improving 
efficiency of their underlying processes, and finding ways to reduce unnecessary regulatory 
complexity.  
