Executive Order D 2026 013 
August 6, 2026 
Page 2 of 5 
 
These efforts will help create quality jobs for Coloradans, build critical infrastructure, and 
attract strategic investment, while still protecting the environment and public health. 
 
Definitions 
The following definitions apply within this Executive Order: 
A. 
“State Agencies and Divisions” includes the following: 
1. Air Pollution Control Division (APCD) 
2. Energy and Carbon Management Commission (ECMC) 
3. Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division (HMWMD) 
4. Water Quality Control Division (WQCD) 
B. 
“Strategic Industries" includes the following list of industry clusters, as developed 
by the Office of Economic Development and International Trade (OEDIT), to the 
extent that they are subject to permitting or regulations by the State Agencies and 
Divisions: 
1. Advanced manufacturing: Examples include robotics and quantum 
2. Aerospace: Examples include aviation, satellites, and space vehicles 
3. Bioscience: Examples include biotechnology, agricultural-bioscience 
technology, and medical devices 
4. Electronics: Examples include semiconductors, computer storage devices, 
and electronic components 
5. Energy and natural resources: Examples include solar, wind, fusion, 
geothermal, grid infrastructure, battery and long-term storage, and carbon 
capture and storage 
6. Infrastructure engineering: Examples include public works and 
transportation projects 
7. Technology and information: Examples include artificial intelligence 
C. 
“Strategic Industry” is the selected industry by the Office of the Governor per 
III(A)(2) from the list of Strategic Industries. 
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
Pilot Portal Project 
1. To advance solutions that drive a user-first, transparent, and seamless 
experience for Strategic Industries applying for State permits, State 
Agencies and Divisions shall collaborate with the Office of the Governor 
and Governor’s Office of Information Technology (OIT) to create a single  
