Executive Order D 2026 013 
August 6, 2026 
Page 3 of 5 
 
statewide permitting portal for a Strategic Industry (“Pilot Portal Project”). 
State Agencies and Divisions should also collaborate with OEDIT and the 
Colorado Energy Office (CEO) as needed. 
2. The Office of the Governor shall select the Strategic Industry in 
consultation with OIT, the State Agencies and Divisions, and other 
stakeholders by August 15, 2026. 
3. The Pilot Portal Project will serve as a single digital front door for 
business applicants in the chosen Strategic Industry, testing the efficacy of 
a unified solution to replace our current fragmented, multi-agency 
processes. The Pilot Portal Project may include the following features: 
i. 
A single project intake interface for viewing permit applications 
across relevant agencies; 
ii. 
A shared business profile across relevant agencies; 
iii. 
Centralized status tracking for these applications; and 
iv. 
A guidance document tailored to the selected industry. 
4. By December 15, 2026, the Office of the Governor, OIT, and State 
Agencies and Divisions shall jointly report to me on progress on the Pilot 
Portal Project and recommendations regarding future direction of the Pilot 
Portal Project. 
B. Modernization Improvements 
1. To support timely permit processing and advance the digitization and 
standardization of key State permitting divisions that regulate Strategic 
Industries, the State Agencies and Divisions shall complete and report to 
the Office of the Governor on the following by December 15, 2026: 
i. 
Data 
1. Develop permitting performance metrics, which may 
include variables such as average permit processing time 
(including distinguishing time spent with the State vs. 
applicant), applicant satisfaction scores, and staff 
processing productivity. 
2. Establish and begin a process for agency and division 
leadership to review permitting performance metrics on a 
regular cadence, supporting data-driven decision-making. 
ii. 
Work management 
1. Ensure there is a staff role with visibility into the entire 
permitting workflow for each program in each division and 
responsibility for strategically prioritizing and assigning 
work. 
