DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS
Pre-Plan Submittal Consultations:
Trip Fee:
Reinspection Fee:
Emergency Services, Standby and Hazardous Materials Incidents:
License Inspections:  
Fire Watch:
Tents/Canopies:
Document Search and Retrieval:
Environmental Site Assesments and Hazardous Materials Incident Research:
Property Condition Assesments:
Assessed to account for time associated with a project during the design and planning stages.  The intent behind the fee is cost 
recovery for staff time during the consultation, similar to time spent during a plan review.  A fee will not be assessed for 
meetings requiring 30 minutes or less and one or two staff members. 
The fee schedule accounts for staff time associated with two site inspections for a given permit.  A trip fee will be assessed 
when, due to the phasing or scheduling of a project, additional inspections may be required.
Assessed when any portion of work for which an inspection has been scheduled is not complete or when hazards are not 
abated in the required time frame.  It may also be assessed for failure to post a required permit, failure to provide access for a 
requested inspection, failure to maintain work in an exposed condition until the inspection is completed, deviation from 
approved plans, lack of sufficient documentation, equipment, or personnel required to conduct the inspection, or a system that 
has not been pre-tested.
Specific situations may require the commitment of fire department resources above and beyond the typical emergency 
response.  They may include response outside the city limits, fire department standby for fire code required  coverage, or the 
use of fire department resources for non-emergency events.  When it is determined that fire department resources are 
requested or provided for dedicated non-emergency services, appropriate fees will be assessed to cover the use of the 
resources and the cost of staffing said equipment.  Examples of when such services may be deemed necessary would include 
bon fires, fireworks displays, and events where medical coverage may be needed.  Standby services shall be provided 
exclusively by the Colorado Springs Fire Department, utilizing only CSFD equipment and personnel. 
This fee is applied to any license inspections required by City Code or as required by any outside agency for approval of their 
licensing procedures.  
Upon written request, the Division of the Fire Marshal will provide property condition assessments for specific addresses, 
businesses, or buildings to the private sector or outside agencies.  Property condition assessments provide known information 
concerning specific issues related to the property’s inspections, violations, and/or variance history.  Additional building and plan 
review information such as plan review comments, disapprovals/approvals, and meeting history is available, but must be 
specifically requested.  Department personnel will review the property’s plans and inspections information, and print or copy 
materials per the requestor’s instructions.  Customers requiring property condition assessments must submit the requests in 
writing and must acknowledge that fees may be assessed accordingly.  The first hour of search is performed at no charge, with 
subsequent hours billed in 30 minute increments.  Additional fees for copies shall apply.
When a fire watch is mandated at an event or location, and due to extraordinary circumstances, it is determined CSFD 
employees are required to perform said fire watch duties, the Fire Watch rate shall be assessed.  Examples of when fire watch 
may be deemed necessary would be when an occupancy has a special/large event where fire protection devices are prohibited, 
where the occupant load is increased, where the nature of the activity presents a public hazard, or when a required fire 
protection system is out of service.  
Multiple tents installed in close proximity to each other or are physically connected are considered one tent/canopy.  When an 
event such as a street fair or special event covers multiple city blocks or portions of a city park, multiple tents not in close 
proximity or connected shall be assessed for the first tent/canopy and then each additional tent/canopy.
When information on one or multiple addresses/properties is requested, personnel must access data bases and files to retrieve 
records.  The amount of time required to do this may vary, therefore, fees shall be assessed in 1/2 hour increments, after the 
first hour, for which there is no charge.  A written request is required and must include whether copies are needed and an 
acknowledgement of the fees. 
Upon written request, the Division of the Fire Marshal will provide environmental site assessments of specific locations to the 
private sector or outside agencies.  Environmental site assessments provide information concerning all known hazardous 
materials and hazardous activities of a specific property, and if requested, within a ¼ mile radius of that property; including any 
known hazardous materials incident reports showing contamination of soil or property, underground storage tank records with 
soil contamination, existing underground storage tanks, hazard materials permit and chemical information, etc.  This service 
requires research of multiple Fire Department and City programs and/or records.  Department personnel and such resources 
are used for determining perimeter identification, retrieval of incident and outstanding violations reports, researching tank 
installations and removals, and printing/copying of any related materials.  Customers requesting environment site assessments 
must submit the requests in writing and must acknowledge that fees may be assessed accordingly.  The first hour of search is 
performed at no charge, with subsequent hours billed in 30 minute increments.  Additional fees for copies shall apply.
Page 7 of 7
