 105.6.26 Electrified fences on commercial property. A construction permit is required to 
install or modify an electrified fence on commercial property regardless of the height of 
the fence. 
 
Subsection 112.1 is amended to read as follows: 
 
112.1 General.  In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations 
made by the fire code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code, 
there shall be created a Regional Fire Code Board of Appeals (“board”) by the entry of 
various fire districts into an intergovernmental agreement (“IGA”).  The board shall be 
appointed through the operation of the IGA.  The fire code official shall be an ex officio 
member of said board but shall have no vote on any matter before the board.  The board 
shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and   shall render all decisions 
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code official.  
The Douglas County Board of County Commissioners shall be notified of all 
appointments made to the board.  Said notification shall be in writing and shall be given 
within 30 days of said appointment(s).  Upon 30 days written notice, the County may 
elect to withdraw from the use of the board at any time and for any reason. In the absence 
of an appointed Board of Appeals, the Douglas County Board of County Commissioners 
may perform its functions.  
 
Subsection 113.4 is amended to read as follows: 
 
113.4 Violation penalties.  Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail 
to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or 
perform work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the fire 
code official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be 
subject to fines up to the maximum specified in Section 30-15-402, C.R.S.  Each day that 
a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense. 
 
Subsection 114.4 is amended to read as follows: 
 
114.4 Failure to comply.  Any person who shall continue any work after having been 
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to 
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to fines up to the maximum 
specified in section 30-15-402, C.R.S. 
 
 
Section 202 General Definitions  
Fire Apparatus Access Road- is amended to read as follows: 
 
Fire apparatus access road - Any improved surface, designed or ordinarily used for 
vehicular travel that provides fire apparatus access, including fire lanes, public or private 
streets, and parking lot lanes.  Fire Apparatus Access Road shall not include a private 
residential driveway, or a private residential shared driveway as defined herein. 
 
Residential Driveway – Add new definition to read as follows: 
 
