Residential Driveway – A vehicular access for private use that serves one lot or parcel 
connecting a dwelling, garage, or other allowed use to the public or private road. 
 
Residential Shared Driveway – Add new definition to read as follows: 
 
Residential Shared Driveway – A vehicular access for private use that may serve no more 
than three lots or parcels for the purpose(s) of ingress and egress to buildings structures 
or other allowed use.  
 
Subsection 503.1 is amended to read as follows: 
 
503.1 Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and maintained in 
accordance with Sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.3 and the Douglas County Roadway 
Design and Construction Standards ("the Standards”). Should any provision of the fire 
code conflict with the Standards, the Standards shall control. Where the Standards are 
silent with respect to fire apparatus access roads, the Douglas County Public Works 
Engineering Director shall make the final determination based on fire code official input 
as to whether Sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.3 of the fire code shall apply. 
  
Subsection 503.2 is amended to read as follows: 
503.2 Specifications.  Fire apparatus access roads shall be designed and installed in 
accordance with the Standards. Should any provision of the fire code conflict with the 
Standards, the Standards shall control. Where the Standards are silent with respect to 
roads, both public and private, the Douglas County Public Works Engineering Director 
shall make the final determination, based on fire code official input. For fire apparatus 
access, other than roads, both public and private, such as fire lanes and parking lot lanes, 
Sections 503.2.1 through 503.2.8 of the fire code shall apply. 
Subsection 503.2.2 is amended to read as follows: 
503.2.2 Authority. The Douglas County Public Works Engineering Director is the 
authority having jurisdiction (AHJ) and shall have the authority to review, permit, inspect 
and approve all fire apparatus access roads, public or private, in unincorporated Douglas 
County. For fire apparatus access, other than roads and private residential driveways, 
both public and private, such as fire lanes and parking lot lanes, the fire code official is 
the AHJ. 
Subsection 503.4.1 is amended to read as follows: 
503.4.1 Traffic calming devices. During design and prior to construction of traffic 
calming devices, fire code official review and comments shall be requested and 
considered by Douglas County. 
Subsection 507.1 Required water supply. Exceptions are added to read as follows: 
 
 
Exceptions: 
