5. One and two-family dwellings and townhouses.  
 
Subsection 609.1 General. Exception 1 is added to read as follows: 
 
1. When the fire code official and the building official determines a requirement of 
NFPA 99 is not applicable to the type of hyperbaric chambers and associated devices 
being installed, the fire code official and the building official shall determine the 
applicable requirements for the hyperbaric facility. 
 
Section 611 Electrified fences on commercial property. Add new Section to read as follows: 
 
611.1 General.  Electrified fences on commercial property shall be permitted in accordance with 
Section 105.6.26 and comply with the provisions of 611.2 through 611.6.  
 
611.2 Components.  Electrified fences on commercial property shall be installed with 
components manufactured and listed for use in such installations to ensure they do not pose a 
significant life-safety risk to humans. 
 
611.3 Clearance from combustibles.  Combustible materials including vegetation capable of 
being ignited shall be prohibited within 10’ (minimum) of electrified fences, unless limited by lot 
lines or as otherwise approved by the fire code official. 
 
611.4 Disconnecting means.  A means shall be provided outside the electrified fence for 
emergency responders to disconnect power to electrified fences on commercial property to 
provide access to the site.  The type and location of the disconnecting means shall be approved 
by the building code official and the fire code official. 
 
611.4.1 Disconnecting means identification.  The means provided to disconnect power 
to electrified fences on commercial property shall be approved by the fire code official. 
 
611.5 Fire apparatus access roads.  Fire apparatus access roads shall be maintained in 
accordance with Section 503 as amended. 
 
611.6 Warning signs.  Outward-facing warning signs shall be posted in a conspicuous manner at 
intervals of not less than thirty (30) feet on electrified fences on commercial property.  The 
warning signs shall have a minimum letter size of two (2) inches and shall include the 
international symbol for high voltage.  
 
 
 
Subsection 1101.1 is amended to read as follows: 
 
1101.1 Scope.  Where required by the fire code official and the building official, the 
provisions of this chapter shall apply to existing buildings constructed prior to this code. 
