1. Individual residential lots, parcels and developments legally in existence prior to the 
adoption of this code. 
2. Developments containing or creating 3 or fewer residential lots or parcels. 
3. Buildings or structures accessory to a dwelling or other allowed private use; or used 
exclusively for private agricultural purposes. 
4. Developments subject to the Douglas County Standard for Water Supplies for Rural 
Fire Fighting.  
 
Subsection 507.3 is amended to read as follows: 
 
507.3 Fire flow.  Fire flow requirements for buildings or portions of buildings and 
facilities shall be determined in accordance with Appendix B of this code as amended or 
a method approved by the fire code official and Douglas County. Where an existing 
water supply for firefighting is not available within two road miles of the vehicular 
entrance of any parcel, the Douglas County Standard for Water Supplies for Rural Fire 
Fighting shall apply. Residential developments legally in existence at the time of the 
adoption of this code are not required to provide minimum water supplies or upgrade 
existing water supplies to meet this code. Non-residential developments and multifamily 
developments legally in existence at the time of the adoption of this code are not required 
to provide minimum water supplies or upgrade existing water supplies to meet this code, 
unless there is a change of use or occupancy. Fire flow requirements shall not apply to 
individual residential lots, parcels or developments listed as exceptions in subsection 
507.1. 
 
Subsection 507.5 is amended to read as follows: 
 
507.5 Fire hydrant systems.  Fire hydrant systems shall comply with Sections 507.5.1 
through 507.5.6, and Appendix C of this code as amended, or the Douglas County 
Standard for Water Supplies for Rural Fire Fighting where applicable. The following 
locations shall not be subject to the standards contained in these Sections and/or 
Appendix C: 
 
1. Fire apparatus access roads not having an existing water line, except when a new water 
line is installed to serve commercial or residential development or to convey water to 
another location. 
2. Where access to sufficient water flow is unavailable as determined by the fire code 
official and the building official. 
 
 
Subsection 507.5.1 is amended to read as follows (exceptions unchanged): 
 
507.5.1 Where required. Where a portion of the facility or building hereafter constructed 
or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than 400 feet (122 m) from a hydrant on 
a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the 
facility or building, on-site fire hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by 
the fire code official and the building official. 
Subsection 510.1 Emergency responder communications enhancement systems in new 
buildings. Exception 5 is added to read as follows: 
 
