Amendments to the 2024 International Fire Code 
 
Section 1. Adoption of the International Fire Code.   That certain document, three (3) copies 
of which are filed in the office of the Douglas County Clerk & Recorder, being marked 
and designated as the International Fire Code, 2024 edition, including Appendix Chapters 
B and C as published by the International Code Council, Inc., 4051 W. Flossmoor Road, 
Country Club Hills, Illinois 60478, and amended by Douglas County, be and is hereby 
adopted by the Board of County Commissioners as the Douglas County Fire Code, 
regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion 
hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and 
devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings 
and premises as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, 
conditions and terms of said Fire Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part 
hereof, as if fully set out in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and 
changes prescribed in Section 2 of this Ordinance. 
 
Section 2. Additions, Insertions, Deletions and Changes.  The following sections of the Fire 
Code are hereby amended as set forth in Attachment 1 and Appendices B and C: 
 
Subsection 101.1 is amended to read as follows: 
 
101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of Douglas County, 
hereinafter referred to as “this code”. 
 
Subsection 102.5 is amended to read as follows: 
 
102.5 Application of this code to residential properties and construction.  Where 
buildings, structures and portions thereof are designed and constructed in accordance 
with the International Residential Code, the provisions of this code shall apply only as 
follows: 
 
1. Provisions of this code pertaining to fire apparatus access roads, water supplies and fire 
flow requirements apply to community fire protection for residential developments in 
which four (4) or more new lots or parcels are created but shall not apply to individual 
structures and properties within those residential developments, except when specifically 
required and approved by the Board of County Commissioners as a condition of the 
planned development process. Requirements for fire apparatus access roads for new 
residential development apply per Subsections 503.1 and 503.2 as amended herein. Water 
supplies and fire flow requirements for new residential development, where adequate and 
reliable water supplies exist and in which four (4) or more new lots or parcels are created, 
apply per Subsection 507.1, 507.3 and 507.5 as amended herein. 
 
2. Construction permits for fire protection systems and associated equipment in the interior 
or exterior of the structure, not including dwelling unit fire sprinkler systems installed in 
accordance with Section P2904 of the International Residential Code. 
 
3. Administrative and maintenance provisions shall apply. Operational permit requirements 
shall apply only as follows: 
a. Amusement areas per Subsection 105.5.3. 
