15 
 
(a) 
General. Class 1 structure hardening shall be in accordance with Sec. 106-51(b) through 
(j) and shall apply to buildings and structures hereafter constructed, modified or relocated 
into or within areas of the wildland-urban interface Class 1. 
 
(b) 
Roofing. Roof shall have a roof assembly classified as Class A when tested in accordance 
with ASTM E108 or UL790. 
 
(1) Flame and ember protection of roofs. For roof assemblies where the roof covering 
profile creates a space between the roof covering and roof deck, the space shall resist 
the entry of flames and embers by one or more of the following methods: 
 
(i) Fire stopping, with noncombustible material, of the space between the roof 
covering and the roof deck. 
(ii) Installation of one layer of cap sheet complying with ASTM D3909 over the 
combustible roof deck. 
(iii) Installation of a listed Class A classified roof assembly. 
 
(2) Open valley flashings. Open valley flashing shall not be less than 0.019 inch (No. 26 
galvanized sheet gauge) corrosion resistant metal installed over a minimum 36-inch-
wide underlayment consisting of one layer of cap sheet complying with ASTM D3909 
running the full length of the valley. 
 
(c) 
Gutters and downspouts. Gutters and downspouts shall be constructed of noncombustible 
material. 
 
(d) 
Ventilation openings. Ventilation openings for enclosed attics, enclosed rafter spaces, and 
under floor spaces shall be in accordance with Sec. 106-51(d)(1) or Sec. 106-51(d)(2) as 
applicable. 
 
(1) Performance requirements. Ventilation openings shall be fully covered with listed 
vents, tested in accordance with ASTM E2886, to demonstrate compliance with all of 
the following requirements: 
(i) There shall be no flaming ignition of the cotton material during the Ember 
Intrusion Test. 
(ii) There shall be no flaming ignition during the Integrity Test portion of the Flame 
Intrusion Test. 
(iii) The maximum temperature of the unexposed side of the vent shall not exceed 
662°F (350°C). 
 
(2) Prescriptive requirements. Ventilation openings for enclosed attics, enclosed rafter 
spaces, and under floor spaces shall be covered with noncombustible corrosion resistant 
mesh with openings not to exceed 1/8 inch. 
 
(e) 
Exterior wall. Exterior walls shall be limited to the following: 
