16 
 
(1) Vinyl siding as part of or applied to exterior wall assemblies with a 1-hour-fire-
resistance rating, rated for exposure on the exterior side. 
(2) Vinyl siding over noncombustible sheathing. 
(3) A wall covered with noncombustible siding. 
(4) A wall covered with fire-retardant-treated wood siding. 
(5) A wall covered with siding made of ignition resistant building materials. 
(6) Mass timber or log wall construction. 
 
Such materials shall extend from the top of the foundation to the underside of the eave or 
the underside of the roof sheathing. Exterior wall coverings shall be labeled for exterior 
use or shall be covered by a material labeled for exterior use. 
 
Exceptions: 
1. Exterior wall embellishments and architectural trim (exclusive of trim on exterior 
windows and doors) not to exceed 5 percent of the square footage of exterior 
walls. 
2. Roof or wall top cornice projections and similar assemblies. 
3. Solid wood rafter tails and solid wood blocking installed between rafters having a 
minimum dimension of 2 inches nominal. 
(f) 
Flashing. A minimum of 6 inches of metal flashing or noncombustible material applied 
vertically between the wall sheathing and the exterior cladding shall be installed at the 
ground, decking, and roof intersections. 
Combustible sheathing products exposed by the gap created at the base of the exterior 
walls, posts, or columns must be protected with noncombustible material or ignition-
resistant building materials while still permitting drainage and moisture control from 
behind exterior cladding. 
 
(g) 
Exterior glazing. Exterior windows, window walls and glazed doors, windows within 
exterior doors, and skylights shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass 
block or have a fire protection rating of not less than 20 minutes. 
 
(h) 
Underfloor enclosure. Buildings or structures shall have underfloor areas enclosed to the 
ground with exterior walls in accordance with Sec. 106-51(e). 
 
Exception: Complete enclosure shall not be required where the underside of exposed 
floors and exposed structural columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as 
required for exterior one hour fire-resistance-rated construction or mass timber 
construction or fire-retardant-treated wood. 
 
(i) 
Decks, appendages, and projections. Decks and other unenclosed accessory structures 
attached to buildings shall be constructed of materials per the following: 
