22 
 
(1) Marking of roads. Approved signs or other approved notices shall be provided and 
maintained for access roads and driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the 
obstruction thereof. 
(2) Marking of fire protection equipment. Fire protection equipment and fire hydrants shall 
be clearly identified in a manner approved by the code official to prevent obstruction. 
(3) Address markers. Buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which shall be 
placed at each driveway entrance and be visible from both directions of travel along 
the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of construction and 
shall be maintained thereafter, and the address shall be visible and legible from the road 
on which the address is located in a manner approved by the code official. 
(f) 
Structure ignition zone 3 (30-100 feet) - Expanded Zone. 
 
(1) Objective. This zone focuses on mitigation that keeps fire on the ground. 
(2) Trees. Prune tree branches to a height of 6 to 10 feet from the ground or a third of the 
total height of the tree, whichever is less. 
(3) Tree Spacing. Tree crowns within this zone shall be spaced at a minimum of 6 to 10 
feet. 
(4) Dead materials. Within the fuel modification area, hazardous dead plant material must 
be removed from live vegetation. 
(5) Fuels accumulation. There shall be no large accumulations of surface fuels such as logs, 
branches, slash and combustible mulch. Mulch shall not exceed a maximum depth of 4 
inches. Firewood piles must be kept at least 30 feet away from habitable structures 
unless stored in a noncombustible container or structure comprised of ignition resistant 
building materials or noncombustible materials. 
(6) Slope adjustment of the expanded zone. For tree removals on any slopes of 20% or 
greater, the Wildfire Interface Specialist must provide a report on the appropriate 
spacing of trees to meet the intent of this code. 
Secs. 106-63 – 106-70. Reserved.” 
Section 2. Should any provision of this ordinance be declared by a court to be unconstitutional or 
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof, 
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. 
Section 3. This ordinance shall be effective on April 1st, 2026. 
 
INTRODUCED, READ, AND ORDERED PUBLISHED this 3rd day of March, 2026. 
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this 24th day of March, 2026. 
