3 
 
1. Listed, or certified as eligible for listing, by the state historic preservation office or 
Keeper of the National Register of Historic Places, in the National Register of 
Historic Places. 
2. Designated as historic under applicable state or local law. 
3. Certified as contributing resource within the National Register, state designated or 
locally designated historic district. 
Home Ignition Zone (Hiz) means the home and the area around the home which takes into 
account both the potential of the structure to ignite and the quality of defensible space surrounding 
it. 
 
Ignition-Resistant Building Material means a type of building material that resists ignition 
or sustained flaming combustion sufficiently so as to reduce losses from wildfire exposure of 
burning embers and small flames. 
 
Ignition-Resistant Building Materials shall comply with any of the following: 
1. Material shall be tested on all sides with the extended ASTM E84 (UL 723) test 
or ASTM E2768, except panel products shall be permitted to test only the front 
and back faces. Panel products shall be tested with a ripped or cut longitudinal 
gap of 1/8 inch. Materials that, when tested in accordance with the test 
procedures set forth in ASTM E84 or UL 723 for a test period of 30 minutes, 
or with ASTM E2768, comply with the following: 
a. Flame spread. Material shall exhibit a flame spread index not exceeding 
25 and shall not show evidence of progressive combustion following the 
extended 30-minute test. 
b. Flame front. Material shall exhibit a flame front that does not progress 
more than 10.5 feet beyond the centerline of the burner at any time 
during the extended 30-minute test. 
c. Weathering. Ignition-resistant building materials shall maintain their 
performance in accordance with this section under conditions of use. 
Materials shall meet the performance requirements for weathering 
(including exposure to temperature, moisture and ultraviolet radiation) 
contained in the following standards, as applicable to the materials and 
the conditions or use: 
i. Method A “Test method for Accelerated Weathering of Fire-
Retardant-Treated Wood for Fire Testing” in ASTM D2898, for 
fire-retardant treated wood, wood-plastic composite and plastic 
lumber materials. 
ii. ASTM D7032 for wood-plastic composite materials. 
iii. ASTM D6662 for plastic lumber materials. 
d. Identification. Materials shall bear identification showing the fire test 
results. 
