7 
 
Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are 
retroactive. 
 
Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing building or structure that will 
cause the existing building or structure to be in violation of any of the provisions of this 
code nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing building or structure to 
become unsafe. An unsafe condition shall be deemed to have been created if an addition or 
alteration will cause the existing building or structure to become structurally unsafe or 
overloaded; will not provide adequate access in compliance with the provisions of this code 
or will obstruct existing exits or access; will create a fire hazard; will reduce required fire 
resistance or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to human life. 
 
(g) 
Maintenance. Buildings, structures, landscape materials, vegetation, defensible space or 
other devices or safeguards required by this code shall be maintained in conformance to 
the code edition under which installed. The owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall be 
responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures, landscape materials and 
vegetation. 
 
Sec. 106-11.  Applicability. 
 
(a) 
General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a specific 
requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where, in any specific case, different 
sections of this code, or any other adopted City code or regulation, specify different 
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive shall govern. 
 
(b) 
Other Laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of 
local, state, or federal law. 
 
(c) 
Application of references. Certain additional codes and standards are referenced in this 
code and are listed throughout. Such codes and standards shall be considered as part of the 
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference and as further 
regulated in the below subsections (1) and (2). 
 
(1) Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and the referenced 
codes and standards, the most restrictive shall apply. 
(2) Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of the reference to a 
referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is within the scope of this code, 
the provisions of this code, as applicable, shall take precedence over the provisions in 
the referenced standard. 
 
(d) 
Subjects not regulated by this code. Where applicable standards or requirements are not 
set forth in this code, or are contained within other laws, codes, regulations, ordinances or 
policies adopted by the jurisdiction, compliance with applicable standards of other 
nationally recognized safety standards, as approved, shall be deemed as prima facie 
evidence of compliance with the intent of this code. Nothing herein shall derogate from the 
authority of the code official to determine compliance with codes or standards for those 
activities or installations within the code official’s jurisdiction or responsibility. 
