17 
 
(1) Deck surface. Noncombustible material, approved wood thermoplastic composite 
lumber with an ASTM E84 flame spread index no greater than 200, ignition-resistant 
building materials or any approved Class A roof assembly. 
 
(2) Deck framing. Deck framing shall be constructed of one of the following: 
 
(i) One-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. 
(ii) Mass timber construction. 
(iii)Approved noncombustible materials. 
(iv)Fire-retardant-treated wood. 
(v) Ignition-resistant building materials. 
(vi) Wood with a minimum nominal thickness of at least two inches for joists and 
four inches for beams and columns or posts. Multi-ply beams and posts with an 
equivalent nominal four-inch thickness are allowed. 
 
(j) 
Vehicle access door perimeter gap. Exterior vehicle access door shall resist the intrusion 
of embers from entering by preventing gaps between doors and door openings, at the head, 
sill, and jam of doors from exceeding 1/8 inch. 
 
Gaps between doors and door openings shall be controlled by one of the following 
methods. 
 
(1) Deck surface. Weather-stripping products made of materials that: (a) have been tested 
for tensile strength in accordance with ASTM D638 (Standard Test Method for Tensile 
Properties of Plastics) after exposure to ASTM G155 (Standard Practice for Operating 
Xenon Arc Light Apparatus for Exposure of Non-Metallic Materials) for a period of 
2,000 hours, when the maximum allowable difference in tensile strength values 
between exposed and non-exposed samples does not exceed 10 percent; and (b) exhibit 
a V-2 or better flammability rating when tested to UL 94 (Standards for Tests for 
Flammability of Plastic Materials for Parts in Devices and Appliances). 
(2) Door overlaps onto jams and headers. 
(3) Garage door jams and headers covered with metal flashing. 
 
Sec. 106-52. Class 2 intermix structure hardening. 
 
(a) 
General. Class 2 structure hardening shall be in accordance with Sec. 106-52(b) through 
(c) as well as the provisions of Class 1 structure hardening in Sec. 106-51(b) through (j). 
(b) 
Protection of eaves and soffits. Eaves and soffits shall be protected on the exposed 
underside by one of the following. 
(1) Noncombustible material. 
(2) Ignition-resistant building materials. 
(3) Materials approved for not less than 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. 
(4) 5/8 inch type X drywall. 
