20 
 
(c) 
Retaining walls. Retaining walls shall be constructed with either noncombustible or 
ignition-resistant building materials when any of the following conditions exist 
 
(1) The retaining wall is within 8 feet of a structure regulated by this code or up to the 
property line when the property line is less than 8 feet away from the structure. 
(2) The retaining wall is integral to the support of a structure regulated by this code. 
(3) The retaining wall is integral to the egress from a structure regulated by this code to a 
public way, easement, or private road. 
(d) 
Fencing. Fencing within 8 feet of a structure regulated by this code or up to the property 
line when the property line is less than 8 feet away from the structure shall be constructed 
with noncombustible or ignition-resistant building materials. 
 
(e) 
Site Signage. 
 
(1) Marking of roads. Approved signs or other approved notices shall be provided and 
maintained for access roads and driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the 
obstruction thereof. 
(2) Marking of fire protection equipment. Fire protection equipment and fire hydrants shall 
be clearly identified in a manner approved by the code official to prevent obstruction. 
(3) Address markers. Buildings shall have a permanently posted address, which shall be 
placed at each driveway entrance and be visible from both directions of travel along 
the road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of construction and 
shall be maintained thereafter, and the address shall be visible and legible from the road 
on which the address is located in a manner approved by the code official. 
Sec. 106-62. Class 2 intermix requirements. 
 
(a) 
Structure ignition zone 1 (0-5 feet) - Immediate Zone. 
 
(1) Objective. This zone is designated to reduce or eliminate ember ignition and direct 
flame contact with the structure, decks, stairs, and attachments. 
(2) Materials. Use noncombustible, hard surface materials in this zone, such as rock, 
gravel, sand, concrete, bare earth or stone/concrete pavers. 
(3) Plantings. Remove all plantings including shrubs, slash, combustible mulch and other 
woody debris. 
(4) Trees. 
(i) There shall be no planting of new trees in the Immediate Zone. Mature trees of 
no less than 10-inch diameter at 4.5 feet above ground level may be maintained. 
(ii) Tree crowns extending to within 10 feet of the outermost point of any 
structure shall be pruned to maintain a minimum clearance of 10 feet. 
(iii)Prune tree branches to a height of 6 to 10 feet from the ground or a third of the 
total height of the tree, whichever is less. 
