19 
 
(a) 
Structure ignition zone 1 (0-5 feet) - Immediate Zone. 
 
(1) Objective. This zone is designated to reduce or eliminate ember ignition and direct 
flame contact with the structure, decks, stairs, and attachments. 
(2) Materials. Use noncombustible, hard surface materials in this zone, such as rock, 
gravel, sand, concrete, bare earth or stone/concrete pavers. 
(3) Plantings. Remove all plantings including shrubs, slash, combustible mulch and other 
woody debris. 
(4) Trees. 
(i) There shall be no planting of new trees in the Immediate Zone. Mature trees of 
no less than 10-inch diameter at 4.5 feet above ground level may be maintained. 
(ii)Tree crowns extending to within 10 feet of the outermost point of any structure 
shall be pruned to maintain a minimum clearance of 10 feet. 
(iii)Prune tree branches to a height of 6 to 10 feet from the ground or a third of the 
total height of the tree, whichever is less. 
(5) Storage of combustibles. There shall be no storage of firewood or other combustible 
materials in this area or areas under decks. 
(b) 
Structure ignition zone 2 (5-30 feet) - Intermediate Zone. 
 
(1) Objective. This zone is designed to give an approaching fire less fuel, which will help 
reduce its intensity as it gets nearer to structures. 
(2) Dead materials. Within the fuel modification area, hazardous dead plant material 
must be removed from live vegetation. 
(3) Fuels accumulation. There shall be no large accumulations of surface fuels such as logs, 
branches, slash and combustible mulch. Mulch shall not exceed a maximum depth of 4 
inches. Firewood piles must be kept at least 30 feet away from habitable structures 
unless stored in a noncombustible container or structure comprised of ignition resistant 
building materials or noncombustible materials. 
(4) Trees. Tree crowns extending to within 10 feet of the outermost point of any structure 
shall be pruned to maintain a minimum clearance of 10 feet. Prune tree branches to a 
height of 6 to 10 feet from the ground or a third of the total height of the tree, whichever 
is less. 
(5) Shrubs. Shrub groups within this zone shall be spaced to prevent structure ignition. 
Shrubs shall not be planted under trees within the tree drip line. 
(6) Prohibited plants. Juniperus spp. (Juniper species), Thuja occidentalis (American 
arborvitae), Thuja orientalis (Oriental Arborvitae) are prohibited. 
(7) Slope adjustment of the intermediate zone. For tree removals on any slopes of 20% or 
greater, the Wildfire Interface Specialist must provide a report on the appropriate 
spacing of trees to meet the intent of this code. 
