2 
 
Barn means a building used exclusively for the housing and care of horses or other 
permitted livestock, and for the storage of feed, hay, other farm crops, and farm or equine 
equipment. Barns may not be used for a garage or as a storage shed for items not associated with 
livestock or farm crops. 
 
Building means any structure intended for supporting or sheltering any occupancy. 
 
Class A Tests means tests applicable to roof coverings that are expected to be effective 
against severe fire exposure, before a high degree of fire protection to the roof deck, do not slip 
from position, and are not expected to present a flying brand hazard. 
 
Code Official means the official designated by the jurisdiction to interpret and enforce this 
code, or the code official’s authorized representative. 
 
Defensible Space means an area either natural or man-made, where material capable of 
allowing a fire to spread unchecked has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate and 
intensity of an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire suppression operations to occur. 
 
Embellishments means elements incorporated in design and construction for ornamental or 
decorative purposes that are not integral to the structure or structural support. 
 
Fire Intensity Classification means the level of fire intensity identified for areas where 
significant fuel hazards and associated dangerous fire behavior may exist, based upon vegetative 
fuels, topography, weather conditions, and flame length value. 
 
Fire-Resistance-Rated Construction means the use of materials and systems in the design 
and construction of a building or structure to safeguard against the spread of fire within a building 
or structure and the spread of fire to or from buildings or structures to the wildland-urban interface 
area. 
 
Fire-Retardant-Treated Wood means any wood product that, when impregnated with 
chemicals by a pressure process or other means during manufacture, shall have, when tested in 
accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723, a listed flame spread index of 25 or less. The ASTM E84 
or UL 723 test shall be continued for an additional 20 minute. And the flame front shall not 
progress more than 10.5 feet beyond the center line of the burners at any time during the test. 
Flame Spread Index means comparative measure, expressed as the dimensionless number, 
derived from visual measurements of the spread of flame versus time for a material tested in 
accordance with ASTM 84. 
 
Fuel Modification means a method of modifying fuel load by reducing the amount of non 
fire resistive vegetation or altering the type of vegetation to reduce the fuel load. 
 
Habitable Space means a space in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking. 
 
Historic Structure means any building or structure that has one or more of the following: 
