9 
 
(a) 
Creation of Agency. The Arvada Building Safety Division and the Fire Protection Districts 
within Arvada are hereby designated as the code compliance agencies and the officials in 
charge thereof shall be known as the code officials. The function of the agency shall be the 
implementation, administration and enforcement of the provisions of this code. 
 
(b) 
Code Official. The code official is the Chief Building Official, Fire Code Official or their 
designee. 
 
(c) 
Deputies. The code official shall have the authority to appoint deputy code officials, other 
related technical officers, inspectors and other employees. Such employees shall have 
powers as delegated by the code official. 
Sec. 106-13. 
Duties and Powers of the Code Official. 
(a) 
Powers and duties of the code official. The code official is hereby authorized to enforce the 
provisions of this code. 
(b) 
Determination of compliance. The code official shall have the authority to determine 
compliance with this code, to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and 
procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, 
policies and procedures: 
(1) Shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code. 
(2) Shall not have the effect of waiving requirements specifically provided for in this code. 
(c) 
Technical assistance. Documentation concerning the application of this Code and 
decisions or actions of the building official shall be kept in accordance with Arvada’s 
adopted records retention schedule. 
(1) Costs. A technical opinion and report shall be provided without charge to the 
jurisdiction. 
(2). Preparer qualifications. The technical opinion and report shall be prepared by a 
qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organization acceptable 
to the code official. The code official is authorized to require design submittals to be 
prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional. 
(3) Content. The technical opinion and report shall analyze the properties of the design, 
operation or use of the building or premises, the facilities and appurtenances situated 
thereon and fuel management to identify and propose necessary recommendations. 
(4) Tests. Where there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the provisions of this 
code, the code official shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of 
compliance. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by other recognized test 
standards. In the absence of recognized test standards, the code official shall approve 
the testing procedures. Such tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code 
official. 
