14 
 
Sec. 106-30. General. 
 
(a) 
Scope. Inspections shall generally be conducted as specified in adopted Arvada Building 
Codes and Supplement, as applicable. 
 
Sec. 106-31. Wildland-Urban interface and designations. 
 
(a) 
Declaration. Inspections shall generally be conducted as specified in adopted Arvada 
Building Codes and Supplement, as applicable. 
 
Sec. 106-32. Mapping and applicability. 
 
(a) 
Applicability of code provisions. The requirements of this code shall apply to all parcels 
located within designated wildland-urban interface and intermix areas derived from 
corresponding fire intensity classifications and ember exposure areas as identified on the 
Arvada Wildland-Urban Interface Overlay District map. The level of structure hardening, 
defensible space, and other mitigation measures required shall correspond to the applicable 
wildland-urban interface classification, Class 1 Intermix or Class 2 Interface. 
 
Structures and parcels identified with low fire intensity classification and are therefore 
located in the Interface Perimeter and Interface Interior zones shall be constructed and 
maintained in accordance with provisions for Class 1 Interface structure hardening and site 
and area requirements. 
 
Structures and parcels identified with moderate to high fire intensity classifications and 
therefore are in the Intermix zone shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with 
the provisions for Class 2 Intermix structure hardening and site and area requirements. 
 
Sec. 106-33. Mapping amendment process. 
 
(a) 
General. Property owners, or their representatives, who disagree with the wildland-urban 
interface mapped areas, can submit a formal application for a map amendment pursuant to 
the process set forth by the code official. 
Secs. 106-34– 106-49. Reserved.” 
 
“ARTICLE IV. STRUCTURE HARDENING 
 
Sec. 106-50. General. 
 
(a) 
Scope. Exterior design and construction of buildings and structures within the wildland-
urban interface areas of Arvada shall be constructed in accordance with this Article. 
 
Sec. 106-51. Class 1 interface structure hardening. 
