4 
 
Exception: Materials composed of a combustible core and a noncombustible 
exterior covering made from either aluminum at a minimum 0.019 inch 
(0.48 mm) thickness or corrosion-resistant steel at a minimum 0.0149 inch 
(0.38 mm) thickness shall not be required to be tested with a ripped or cut 
longitudinal gap. 
 
Ignition-Resistant Vegetation means plants that are less likely to readily ignite from a flame 
or other ignition source and produce fewer embers. While they can still be damaged by fire, their 
foliage and stems don't significantly contribute to the intensity of the fire. 
 
Log Wall Construction means a type of construction in which exterior walls are constructed 
of solid wood members and where the smallest horizontal dimension of each solid wood member 
is not less than 6 inches. Log wall construction shall follow requirements of ICC 400. 
 
Mass Timber Construction means as described in section 602.4 of the 2024 International 
Building Code. Also known as Type IV construction. 
 
Multilayered Glazed Panels means window or door assemblies that consists of two or more 
independently glazed panels installed parallel to each other, having a sealed air gap in between, 
within a frame designed to fill completely the window or door opening in which the assembly is 
intended to be installed. 
 
Noncombustible, as applied to building construction material, means and material that, in 
the form in which it is used, is one of the following: 
1. Material of which no part will ignite and burn when subjected to fire. 
2. Any material confirming to ASTM E136 shall be considered noncombustible 
within the meaning of this section. 
3. For the purposes of this code, fire-rated gypsum board tested in accordance with 
ASTM C1396 with no less than a 1-hour fire-resistance-rating with fire exposure 
from the outside only is considered a noncombustible material. 
Occupiable Space means a room or enclosed space designed for human occupancy in 
which individuals congregate for amusement, education or similar purposes or in which occupants 
are engaged at labor. 
 
Roof Assembly means a system designed to provide weather protection and resistance to 
design loads. The system consists of a roof covering and roof deck or a single component serving 
as both the roof covering and roof deck. A roof assembly can include an underlayment, thermal 
barrier, ignition barrier, insulation or vapor retarder. 
Roof Covering means the covering applied to the roof deck for weather resistance, fire 
classification or appearance. 
Roof Deck means the flat or sloped surface not including its supporting members or vertical 
supports. 
