11 
 
(ii) Other reports. Reports not complying with the above subsection (i) shall 
describe criteria, including but not limited to any referenced testing or analysis, 
used to determine compliance with code intent and justify code equivalence. 
The report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or 
fire safety specialty organization acceptable to the code official. The code 
official is authorized to require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear 
the stamp of, a registered design professional. 
(7) Peer review. The code official is authorized to require submittal of a peer review report 
in conjunction with a request to use an alternative material, design or method of 
construction, prepared by a peer reviewer that is approved by the code official. 
(e) 
Modifications. Where there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out the provisions 
of this code, the code official shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual 
cases, provided that the code official shall first find that one or more special individual 
reasons make the strict letter of this code impractical, that the modification is in 
conformance with the intent and purpose of this code, and that such modification does not 
lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of the written request and action 
granting modifications shall be recorded and entered into the files of the code enforcement 
agency. 
(f) 
Applications and permits. The code official is authorized to receive applications, review 
construction documents and issue permits for construction regulated by this code, and 
inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce compliance with 
the provisions of this code. 
(g) 
Right of Entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this 
code, or where the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a 
structure or on any premises a condition that is contrary to or in violation of this code that 
makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the code official is 
authorized to enter the structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect or to perform 
the duties imposed by this code. If such structure or premises is occupied, the code 
official shall present proper credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such 
structure or premises is unoccupied, the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to 
locate the owner, the owner’s authorized agent or other person having charge or control of 
the structure or premises and request entry. If such entry is refused, then the code official 
shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. 
(1) Warrant. Where the code official has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other 
remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner, the owner’s authorized agent, 
occupant or person having charge, care or control of the structure or premises shall not 
fail or neglect, after a proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein 
by the code official for the purposes of inspection and examination pursuant to this 
code. 
(h) 
Identifications. The code  official shall  carry  proper  identification  when  inspecting 
structures or premises in the performance of duties under this code. 
(i) 
Notices and orders. The code official shall issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure 
compliance with this code. Notices of violations shall be in accordance with the violation 
