8 
 
(e) 
Matters not provided for. Requirements that are essential for the public safety of an 
existing or proposed activity, building or structure, or for the safety of the occupants 
thereof, which are not specifically provided for by this code, shall be determined by 
the code official consistent with the necessity to establish the minimum requirements to 
safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare. 
 
(f) 
Partial Invalidity. In the event any part or provision of this code is held to be illegal or 
void, this shall not have the effect of making void or illegal any of the other parts or 
provisions. 
 
(f) 
Exemptions: Work exempt from the requirements of this code. Exemptions from code 
requirements shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work that violates the 
provisions of this code or any other laws, ordinances, regulations or rules of the 
jurisdiction. This code does not apply to: 
 
(1) Alterations that only affect the interior of existing structures. 
(2) The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the exterior walls of an existing 
building, when less than 25 percent of the surface area of all exterior walls is affected. 
(3) The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the existing exterior roof 
covering of an existing building when less than 25 percent of the surface area of the 
exterior roof covering or an attachment thereto is affected. 
(4) Alterations or repairs to the exterior of an existing structure, or an attachment to it, 
when less than 25 percent of the exterior of the structure is affected by the alteration or 
repair. 
(5) Painting, staining, and similar maintenance or restorative work. 
(6) Materials and methods of construction, when required to maintain a building’s or 
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure, are exempt from the 
requirements of this code. 
(7) One story detached accessory, non-habitable structures, such as tool and storage sheds, 
playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area does not exceed 120 square 
feet and the structure is located greater than or equal to 10 feet from the nearest adjacent 
occupiable structure. The distance between structures is measured from the outermost 
point of the structures. 
(8) Barns used exclusively to house livestock, store livestock feed, store farm products, 
protect equipment, or manage agricultural waste, located more than 50 feet from a 
structure containing occupiable or habitable space. The distance between structures is 
measured from the outermost point of the structures. 
(9) Fences located more than 8 feet from the outermost point of a habitable structure. 
 
Sec. 106-12. Code Compliance Agency. 
