12 
 
procedures related to the adopted Arvada Building Codes and Supplements or the Arvada 
Zoning Resolution, as may be applicable. 
(j) 
Official records. Official records shall be maintained in accordance with the Colorado 
Open Records Act and City record retention policies. 
(k) 
Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices approved by the 
code official shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such approval. 
(1) Materials and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused 
unless such elements are in good working order and approved. 
Sec. 106-14. 
Permits. 
 
(a) 
General. Within the wildland-urban interface Class 1 and Class 2 Areas, structure 
hardening will be regulated as part of and through the permit process specified in the 
adopted Arvada Building Codes and Supplements. Site and area regulations will be 
regulated as part of and through the defensible space permit process specified in the Arvada 
Zoning Resolution. 
 
The code official is authorized to stipulate conditions for permits. Permits shall not be 
issued where public safety would be at risk, as determined by the code official. 
 
(b) 
Permit application. In obtaining permits, every such application shall: 
 
(1) Identify the Wildland-Urban Interface Class. 
(2) Identify and describe the work, activity, operation, practice or function to be covered 
by the permit for which application is made. 
(3) Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by legal description, 
street address or similar description that will readily identify and definitely locate the 
proposed building, work, activity, operation, practice or function. 
(4) Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended. 
(5) Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computation and specifications and other data as 
required to determine compliance. 
(6) Give such other data and information as required by the code official. 
 
(c) 
Preliminary inspection. Before a permit is issued, the code official is authorized to inspect 
and approve the systems, equipment, buildings, devices, premises and spaces or areas to 
be used. 
 
(d) 
Refusal to issue a permit. Where the application or construction documents do not conform 
to the requirements of pertinent laws, the code official shall reject such application in 
writing, stating the reasons therefor. 
 
(e) 
Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans, specifications 
and computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation 
of any of the provisions of this code or of any other ordinance of the jurisdiction. Permits 
