13 
 
presuming to give authority to violate or conceal the provisions of this code or other 
ordinances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid. 
 
(f) 
Revocation of permits. The code official is allowed to, in writing, suspend or revoke a 
permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the permit is issued in error or on 
the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation 
or any of the provisions of this code. 
 
Sec. 106-15. 
Fees. 
 
(a) 
Payment of fees. Fees for permits, if required, shall be in accordance with the Building 
Permit Fee schedule and/or the Development Application & Permit Fee schedule adopted 
by the city of Arvada. A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed by law have been 
paid. An amendment to a permit shall not be released until the additional fee, if any, has 
been paid. 
 
Sec. 106-16. 
Inspections. 
 
(a) 
General. Inspections shall generally be conducted as specified in adopted Arvada Building 
Codes and Supplement, as applicable. 
 
Sec. 106-17. 
Enforcement. 
 
(a) 
General. Enforcement of this code shall be in accordance with the adopted Arvada 
Building Codes and Supplements, or the Arvada Land Development code, as applicable. 
 
Sec. 106-18. 
Appeals. 
 
(a) 
General. Appeals shall be as specified in the adopted Arvada Building Codes, the Building 
Code Supplements, or in the Arvada Zoning Resolution, as each may be applicable. 
 
Generally, the Building Code Advisory Board has authority to hear and decide appeals or 
orders, requirements or decisions of the code official relating to the application and 
interpretation of Article 1, 2, and 4 of this code or arising out of the permitting process set 
forth in the adopted Arvada Building Codes and Supplements. 
The Arvada Building Code Advisory Board has authority to hear and decide appeals or 
orders, requirements or decisions of the code official relating to the application and 
interpretation of Articles 3 and 5 of this code or arising out of the permitting process set 
forth in the Arvada Code. 
An applicant for an appeal arising out of the administration of the provisions of this code 
that are incorporated into or are a part of both the Arvada Building Codes and Supplements 
elect to have the Building Code Advisory Board hear the entirety of the appeal. 
 
Secs. 106-19– 106-29. Reserved.” 
 
 
“ARTICLE III. WILDFIRE HAZARD IDENTIFICATION 
