21 
 
(5) Storage of combustibles. There shall be no storage of firewood or other combustible 
materials in this area or areas under decks. 
 
(b) 
Structure ignition zone 2 (5-30 feet) - Intermediate Zone. 
 
(1) Objective. This zone is designed to give an approaching fire less fuel, which will help 
reduce its intensity as it gets nearer to structures. 
(2) Dead materials. Within the fuel modification area, hazardous dead plant material 
must be removed from live vegetation. 
(3) Fuels accumulation. There shall be no large accumulations of surface fuels such as logs, 
branches, slash and combustible mulch. Mulch shall not exceed a maximum depth of 4 
inches. Firewood piles must be kept at least 30 feet away from habitable structures 
unless stored in a noncombustible container or structure comprised of ignition resistant 
building materials or noncombustible materials. 
(4) Trees. Tree crowns extending to within 10 feet of the outermost point of any structure 
shall be pruned to maintain a minimum clearance of 10 feet. Prune tree branches to a 
height of 6 to 10 feet from the ground or a third of the total height of the tree, whichever 
is less. 
(5) Tree Spacing. Tree crowns within this zone shall be spaced to prevent structure ignition 
and promote fuel discontinuity to limit fire spread. 
(6) Shrubs. Shrub groups within this zone shall be spaced to prevent structure ignition. 
Shrubs shall be at least 10 feet away from the edge of tree branches. 
(7) Prohibited plants. Juniperus spp. (Juniper species), Thuja occidentalis (American 
arborvitae), Thuja orientalis (Oriental Arborvitae) are prohibited. 
(8) Slope adjustment of the intermediate zone. For tree removals on any slopes of 20% or 
greater, the Wildfire Interface Specialist must provide a report on the appropriate 
spacing of trees to meet the intent of this code. 
(c) 
Retaining walls. Retaining walls shall be constructed with either noncombustible or 
ignition-resistant building materials when any of the following conditions exist 
 
(1) The retaining wall is within 8 feet of a structure regulated by this code or up to the 
property line when the property line is less than 8 feet away from the structure. 
(2) The retaining wall is integral to the support of a structure regulated by this code. 
(3) The retaining wall is integral to the egress from a structure regulated by this code to a 
public way, easement, or private road. 
(d) 
Fencing. Fencing within 8 feet of a structure regulated by this code or up to the property 
line when the property line is less than 8 feet away from the structure shall be constructed 
with noncombustible or ignition-resistant building materials. 
 
(e) 
Site Signage. 
