10 
 
(d) 
Alternative materials, design, and methods. The provisions of this code are not intended to 
prevent the installation of any material or to prohibit any design or method of construction 
not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such alternative is not 
specifically prohibited by this code and has been approved. 
(1) Approval authority. An alternative material, design or method shall be approved where 
the code official finds that the proposed alternative is satisfactory and complies with 
the below subsections (2) through (7), as applicable. 
(2) Application and disposition. A request to use an alternative material, design or method 
of construction shall be submitted in writing to the code official for approval. Where 
the alternative material, design or method of construction is not approved, the code 
official shall respond in writing, stating the reasons the alternative was not approved. 
(3) Compliance with code intent. An alternative material, design or method of construction 
shall comply with the intent of the provisions of this code. 
(4) Equivalency criteria. An alternative material, design or method of construction shall, 
for the purpose intended, be not less than the equivalent of that prescribed in this code 
with respect to all of the following, as applicable: 
(i) Quality. 
(ii) Strength. 
(iii) Effectiveness. 
(iv) Durability. 
(v) Safety, other than fire safety. 
(vi) Fire safety. 
 
(5) Tests. Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalency in support of an alternative material, 
design or method of construction application shall be of a scale that is sufficient to 
predict performance of the end use configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party 
acceptable to the code official. 
(i) Fire tests. Tests conducted to demonstrate equivalent fire safety in support of 
an alternative material, design or method of construction application shall be of 
a scale that is sufficient to predict fire safety performance of the end use 
configuration. Tests shall be performed by a party acceptable to the code 
official. 
(6) Reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the approval of materials or 
assemblies not specifically provided for in this code, shall comply with the below 
subsections (i) and (ii). 
(i) Evaluation reports. Evaluation reports shall be issued by an approved agency 
and use of the evaluation report shall require approval by the code official for 
the installation. The alternate material, design or method of construction and 
product evaluated shall be within the scope of the code official’s recognition of 
the approved agency. Criteria used for the evaluation shall be identified within 
the report and, where required, provided to the code official. 
