6 
 
Buildings, structures, or conditions in existence at the time of the adoption of this code are 
allowed to have their use or occupancy continued, if such condition, use or occupancy was 
legal at the time of the adoption of this code, provided that such continued use does not 
constitute a distinct danger to life or property. 
 
When portions of existing non-habitable and non-occupiable buildings or structures 
undergo a change of occupancy which includes a residential occupancy classification or 
single- or two-family dwellings, per the City's adopted Building Codes and Supplements 
the building or structure shall comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings or 
structures. 
 
Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction shall comply with the 
provisions of this code for new buildings or structures. 
 
(c) 
Date effective. This code shall become effective on July 1, 2026, and shall apply to permits 
applied for on or after July 1, 2026. Applications for permits made prior to July 1, 2026, 
shall be governed by the terms of the codes and regulations in effect at the time of 
application. 
 
(d) 
Purpose. The purpose of this code is to establish minimum regulations for the safeguarding 
of life and for property protection. Regulations in this code are intended to mitigate the risk 
to life and structures from intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures and fire exposures 
from adjacent structures and to mitigate structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. 
The extent of this regulation is intended to be tiered commensurate with the relative level 
of hazard present. 
 
The unrestricted use of property in wildland-urban interface areas is a potential threat to 
life and property from fire and resulting erosion. Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of 
fires and to provide adequate fire protection facilities to control the spread of fire 
in wildland-urban interface areas shall be in accordance with this code. 
 
The standards in this code are incorporated into and are a part of the jurisdiction’s adopted 
Building Codes and Supplements, and augment the jurisdiction’s fire codes, to mitigate the 
fire- and life-safety hazards of the wildland-urban interface areas. 
(e) 
Retroactivity. The provisions of the code shall apply to conditions arising after the adoption 
thereof, conditions not legally in existence at the adoption of this code and conditions that, 
in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct hazard to life or property. 
 
Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to existing conditions are 
retroactive. 
 
(f) 
Additions or alterations. Additions or alterations shall be permitted to be made to any 
building or structure without requiring the existing building or structure to comply with 
all of the requirements of this code, provided that the addition or alteration conforms to 
that required for a new building or structure. 
