5 
 
Slope means the variation of terrain from the horizontal; The number of feet rise or fall per 
100 feet measured horizontally, expressed as a percentage. 
 
Structure means that which is built or constructed. For the purposes of this code, fences 
are not considered a structure. 
 
Structure Ignition Zone is the structure and the area around the structure (or home). The 
SIZ takes into account both the potential of the structure to ignite and the quality of defensible 
space surrounding it. 
 
Tree Crown means the primary and secondary branches growing out from the main stem, 
together with twigs and foliage. 
 
Wildfire Interface Specialist means an individual who meets the minimum training and 
experience requirements as required by the code official for conducting structure ignition zone 
inspections. 
 
Wildland-Urban Interface Interior means that geographical area farther away from 
wildland vegetation than the Interface Perimeter where homes are primarily exposed to radiant 
heat and embers from adjacent homes as well as embers from burning vegetation. These areas have 
the potential for urban conflagrations. 
 
Wildland-Urban Interface Perimeter means that geographical area adjacent to wildland 
vegetation where homes can be exposed to embers and radiant and convective heat from burning 
vegetation and adjacent homes. These areas have the potential for wildland fires to transition into 
urban conflagrations. 
 
Wildland-Urban Intermix means that geographical area where the built environment 
intermingles with wildland vegetation and where homes are primarily exposed to embers and 
radiant and convective heat from burning vegetation. 
 
Secs. 106-3 – 106-09. Reserved.” 
“ARTICLE II. SCOPE AND ADMINISTRATION 
Sec. 106-10. Scope and General Requirements. 
(a) 
Title. Articles 1-5 of this code shall be considered a part of the Arvada Code. These 
regulations shall be known as, and shall be cited as, the “Arvada Wildfire Resiliency Code” 
and shall be referred to herein as “this code.” 
 
(b) 
Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction, exterior alteration, 
movement, exterior repair, and replacement of any building or structure within the 
wildland-urban interface areas in this jurisdiction. Existing non-habitable and non-
occupiable buildings or structures, which undergo a change of occupancy to include 
habitable or occupiable space, shall comply with the provisions of this code for new 
buildings or structures. Although not considered a structure, new fences and retaining walls 
are required to follow the provisions of Article 5 in this code. 
