El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code 
 
 
Use and Dimensional Standards – Chapter 5-Page 1               
Effective 01/09/2018 
 
Chapter Five 
USE AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS 
 USE TABLES 
5.1.
5.2.3. 
Purpose 
The purpose of the use tables in this Chapter are to summarize what uses may be made 
of lots, tracts or parcels within each base zoning district in conformance with the 
requirements of this Code. 
5.2.3. 
Types of Uses and Limit on the Number of Uses per Lot or Parcel 
Each base zoning district regulates land uses as either a principal use or an accessory 
use. Only one principal use is allowed per lot or parcel, except in the A-35 zoning district 
and in commercial and industrial zoning districts where more than one principal use may 
be established subject to the requirements and limitations of this Code, or where special 
use approval or variance of use approval has authorized additional uses. An accessory 
use requires that a principal use is established on the same lot or parcel as the accessory 
use before the accessory use is established and that the principal use continue on the lot 
or parcel so long as the accessory use continues, unless otherwise provided by this Code. 
Multiple accessory uses may be allowed on a lot or parcel subject to the requirements and 
limitations of this Code. 
5.2.3. 
Principal Use Table Described 
Principal uses are organized into three categories for purpose of regulation: allowed uses, 
special uses, and temporary uses. Table 5-1 identifies principal uses which may be 
located on a lot or parcel in each base zoning district. Base zoning districts are shown on 
the horizontal axis and specific uses or categories of land uses are shown on the vertical 
axis. The following symbols shall be used to interpret the list of uses and means by which 
they may be located on a lot or parcel within each base zoning district: 
 
If the symbol “A” appears in the box at the intersection of the column and row, the use 
is allowed subject to applicable development standards (Chapter 6), use and 
dimensional standards (Chapter 5) and other applicable provisions of this Code, 
(including site plan or site development plan approval, if a building or other 
development permit is required). 
 
If the symbol “S” appears in the box at the intersection of the column and the row, the 
use is allowed subject to the Special Use provisions of this Code and to applicable 
