ColoGeoSurvey Land Use Review Referral and Fee Guide - June 18, 2026 
 
Frequently Asked Questions about the CGS Land Use Review Process 
What is CGS’s role in the review process? 
Geological studies are required by Colorado counties for all subdivisions of unincorporated land into 
parcels of less than 35 acres, under state statute C.R.S. 30-28-136 (1) (i) (Senate Bill 35, 1972). Some 
Colorado municipalities require geological studies for subdivision of incorporated land. In addition, 
local governments are empowered to regulate development activities in hazardous and mineral-
resource areas under C.R.S. 24-65.1-101 et seq. (House Bill 1041, 1974) and C.R.S. 34-1-301 et seq. 
(House Bill 1529, 1973), respectively. 
Local-government agencies submit proposed subdivision applications and supporting technical reports 
to the Colorado Geological Survey “...for evaluation of those geologic factors which would have 
significant impact on the proposed use of the land.” 
CGS serves as an independent technical reviewer and advisor to local governments by evaluating 
geologic conditions and geologic hazards that may affect the proposed land use. 
Why does CGS charge review fees? 
State law requires CGS to recover the direct costs of land-use reviews from development applicants 
rather than taxpayers. 
What fees apply to my project? 
All referrals require payment of the $125 submittal fee. Additional review fees may apply depending on 
the type and complexity of project submitted. 
What technical information should be submitted if the project will be referred to CGS for review? 
The information required for review varies by project and jurisdiction. At a minimum, CGS generally 
needs a site plan and any available geologic or geotechnical studies relevant to the proposed 
development. 
When does the statutory review period begin? 
The review period begins when the submittal fee has been paid and CGS receives a complete referral 
package from the county or municipal planner. 
Will the CGS geologist make a field visit? 
CGS geologists conduct site visits as necessary. 
Why are the CGS review comments so short and simple? What are the CGS review fees paying for? 
The CGS referral response is a review of geologic and geotechnical reports submitted, and the proposed 
project’s compatibility with geologic conditions. CGS does not offer designs but ensures that the work 
that has been done by the applicant and their consultants is meaningful and adequate for site 
conditions and proposed development. CGS review comments for a project where all geologic 
conditions and hazards have been satisfactorily considered and addressed, or where geologic hazards 
and unusual geotechnical constraints are not present, may be brief. If more work needs to be done or if 
difficult site conditions are present, the review comments may be longer. 
What is a resubmittal? 
A resubmittal is a revised project and/or additional documents submitted after CGS has issued review 
comments. 
Additional information: coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/hazards/lur/ (shortcut URL: cgs.rocks) 
Questions regarding fees, billing, or review procedures? Email CGS_LUR@mines.edu 
