COLORADO GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 
LAND USE REVIEW REFERRAL AND FEE GUIDE 
Information for project applicants and their representatives 
The Colorado Geological Survey (CGS) is an external review agency for counties, municipalities, and 
school districts throughout Colorado. The goal of CGS’s Land Use Review (LUR) Program is to help local 
governments plan for new development while reducing the impact of geologic hazards on people and 
property.  
Information about CGS's Land Use Review Program and the statutory framework governing our role in the 
planning process is available here: coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/hazards/lur/ (shortcut URL: cgs.rocks) 
Once a planning application is determined to be complete, the county or municipal planner may send it to 
CGS for review.  
To commence our review, CGS requires: 
• Payment of the $125 Submittal Fee 
• Acknowledgment that Project Review Fee(s) may apply 
• A referral from the county or municipal planner with relevant project information and documents 
To pay the Submittal Fee and acknowledge Project Review Fees, visit 
coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/hazards/lur/ (shortcut URL: cgs.rocks) and click on “Pay Online: Submittal 
or Resubmittal Fee, Project Review Fee, or LUR Invoice.” If you prefer to download, print and fill out a 
paper form and mail with a check, you can use the CGS LUR Mail-In Fee Form pdf available at the link 
above. 
Colorado Geological Survey Land Use Review Fee Schedule 
Submittal and Resubmittal Fee - applies to all projects submitted to CGS for review, and to all 
resubmittals. 
Fee Type 
Fee 
Initial Submittal 
$125 
Resubmittal 
$125 
Project Review Fee - applies to all proposed subdivisions and most other projects1 
Project Type 
Fee 
Subdivisions of 1 to 3 residential lots and less than 100 acres 
$600 
All other subdivisions of less than 100 acres 
$950 
Subdivisions of 100 to 500 acres 
$1,550 
Subdivisions of greater than 500 acres 
$2,500 
School site reviews 
$855 
Special reviews2 
Reviewer hourly rate 
1 If the project is a subdivision or school site, the party paying the Submittal Fee will have the option of 
also prepaying the applicable Project Review Fee. In this case, the $125 Submittal Fee will be credited 
toward the flat Project Review Fee. If the project is not a subdivision or school site, or the applicant or 
their representative elects not to prepay the flat Project Review Fee, we will invoice. 
2 Special reviews include all non-school-site projects referred to CGS that do not involve platting new 
lots. Examples: site development plans for existing lots, PUDs and rezones, location & extent reviews, 
lot line adjustments, lot line and easement vacations, oil & gas, wind, and solar projects, 1041 Matters 
of State Interest, and building, driveway, and OWTS permit applications. The fee for Special Reviews 
generally ranges from no additional fee to $1500 depending on complexity and cannot be prepaid. 
