• Resolution 17-321 
EL PASO COUNTY 
STATE OF COLORADO 
ORDINANCE NO. 18-03 
REQUIRING THE REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 30-15-401, C.R.S., the Board of County Commissioners of El Pas
o County, Colorado ("Board") has the general enabling power to adopt ordinances for the control or
 licensing of those matters of purely local concern, and to do all acts and make all regulations which may
 be necessary or expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of disease; and
WHEREAS, Section 30-15-401 (1)(q), C.R.S., spe cifically authorizes the adoption of or dinances and re
gulations to compel the removal of unsafe buildings and structures within the unincorporated areas of El Pa
so County, and
WHEREAS, the Board has previously enacted Ordinance 08-01, requiring the removal of unsafe 
buildings; and 
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that changes to the ordinance are necessary in order to make its 
enforcement more efficient, effective and timely; and 
WHEREAS, it is the opinion ofthe Board that in order to preserve the public health, safeiy and welfare 
ofthe citizens of El Paso Couniy, the Board should take the following action. 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Board ofCouniy Commissioners ofEl Paso County, 
Colorado: 
Section 1: Purpose. 
The purpose of this Ordinance is to protect the public health, safety, and welfare ofthe citizens and
 residents of El Paso County, Colorado, by compelling the repair or removal of unsafe buildings which, if
 not repaired or removed, fire hazards, "attractive nuisances," rodent infestations and other hazards.
Section 2: Authority and Effect. 
2.1 This Ordinance is authorized pursuantto, inter alia, C.R.S. §§30-11-101, et seq., §§ 30-15-401, et 
seq., and§§ 29-20-101, et. seq. 
Section 3: Applicability. 
3.1 This Ordinance shall apply throughout the unincorporated area of El Paso County including public 
and state lands. 
3.2 This Ordinance shall apply within the corporate limits of any incorporated town or city within El Paso 
County which elects by appropriate ordinance or resolution to have the provisions ofthis Ordinance apply 
therein and which enters into an intergovernmental agreement with El Paso County relating thereto. 
Section 4: Definitions. 
4.1 Board: the Board of County; Commissioners of El Paso County, Colorado.
