 
 
8 | P a g e 
Profile of the Division 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for the Division, it is first necessary to understand what 
professional and occupational regulation is. 
 
The Division of Professions and Occupations (Division) is a consumer protection agency 
in the Department of Regulatory Agencies that houses and provides administrative 
support to the boards and director-model programs that regulate over 60 types of 
practitioners and businesses throughout Colorado.2  
 
For readability purposes, the term “license” is used in a general sense throughout this 
report to refer to credentials issued by the various registration, certification and 
licensure programs housed within the Division. The term “licensee” is also used in a 
general sense to refer to individual practitioners and businesses that hold such 
credentials. 
 
The various programs within the Division regulate practitioners, such as architects, 
certified public accountants, doctors, engineers, nurses, hunting outfitters and many 
more. In some cases, the Division also regulates the business entities where these 
practitioners work. Appendix A provides complete lists of practitioners and businesses 
that are regulated by programs within the Division. 
 
The Division houses two types of regulatory programs: director-model programs and 
board-model programs. Generally, in a director-model program, an administrator 
oversees the regulatory program and is vested with the licensing, enforcement and 
rulemaking authority. In a board-model program, a governing board is typically vested 
with this authority. Appendix B lists, by program type, all of the director-model and 
board-model programs within the Division.  
 
One important function of professional and occupational regulation is to protect 
consumers from harm by unqualified individuals. To do this, a regulatory program 
evaluates the qualifications of applicants and restricts the issuance of licenses to those 
who meet the minimum requirements necessary to practice safely at the entry level. 
Typically, entry-level requirements are established in statute. Some examples of 
qualifications required for licensure include on-the-job training, education, experience 
and passage of an examination. Depending on the statutory requirements, a regulatory 
program may also conduct criminal history record checks when evaluating applications 
for licensure. 
 
2 Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies. About the Colorado Division of Professions and Occupations. 
Retrieved September 5, 2025, from https://dpo.colorado.gov/About 
