 
 
9 | P a g e 
Like regulated practitioners, depending on the license type, regulated businesses may 
also be required to demonstrate a variety of qualifications. Some examples of 
qualifications that may be required are:  
 
• Direction and oversight by a licensed practitioner,  
• Employment of qualified practitioners for certain duties, and  
• Evidence of insurance and surety bonds.  
 
Some programs may impose periodic reporting requirements on regulated businesses, 
and some regulated businesses may also be subject to inspections and audits. 
Additionally, a program may require regulated businesses to obtain permits to provide 
certain types of services. 
 
Another important function of professional and occupational regulation is to protect 
consumers from regulated practitioners and business entities that, while otherwise 
qualified, have proven to be incompetent, unscrupulous or negligent. To do this, a 
regulatory program typically reviews and investigates complaints against licensees to 
determine whether they have violated professional standards. Depending on the type 
of practice, audits and inspections may also be employed to determine compliance with 
professional standards.  
 
When regulatory programs uncover instances in which licensees are not practicing 
safely, they are usually vested with the authority to take enforcement action in order 
to protect consumers, which may include, among other things, public admonition, 
additional training, practice monitoring and practice restrictions. For conduct that is 
especially egregious, regulatory programs typically also have the authority to suspend 
or revoke a license. 
 
While the primary role of a regulatory program is to protect consumers from unqualified 
or unsafe practitioners, regulatory programs also rely on various outreach and 
engagement initiatives to communicate with and solicit information from the public.  
 
For programs that are complaint driven, open communication with the public is 
essential. Outreach and engagement activities can increase knowledge of and support 
confidence in regulatory programs. Likewise, when regulatory authority is vested in a 
governing board whose membership is primarily made up of practitioners of the 
regulated profession, it is especially important to provide the public with opportunities 
to attend board meetings. 
 
Open communication with the public is also an important source of information for 
students, applicants, licensees, educators, employers, consumers, consumer groups, 
researchers, policy makers, other jurisdictions and professional, occupational and trade 
associations.  
 
