 
 
11 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the Division was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
When it passed the Administrative Organization Act of 1968 (Act), the General Assembly 
created the Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) and the Division of 
Registrations, now the Division of Professions and Occupations (Division). The Act 
carved out the principal departments of the state government and designed an overall 
administrative structure for the Executive Branch. The Act also relocated numerous 
existing licensing boards to the Division. 
 
Over the years, the General Assembly has adopted many bills that have shaped the 
Division. The timeline below highlights some notable changes. 
 
1973 — Three bills — Senate Bill 73-45 and House Bills 73-1018 and 73-1025 — gave 
the Executive Director of DORA oversight over the Division’s licensing and 
examination procedures and made them responsible for monitoring 
complaints. 
 
1979 — House Bill 79-1560 directed the Division to provide any necessary 
management and administrative support to its boards and commissions, and 
Senate Bill 79-264 allowed board members to collect a per diem for their 
service and to be reimbursed for expenses incurred while fulfilling their 
official duties. 
 
2004 — Senate Bill 04-024 moved the regulatory authority over license renewals and 
reinstatements from the Executive Director of DORA to the Director of the 
Division (Director). The bill also established a uniform process to reinstate a 
license and created a 60-day grace period for licensees who fail to renew 
their licenses by the expiration date. 
 
