 
 
13 | P a g e 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether the 
current laws are impeding or enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public 
interest. 
 
In Colorado, regulatory oversight of various professions and occupations is articulated 
in the relevant practice acts and in Articles 20 and 30 of Title 12, C.R.S. 
 
This sunset review pertains to the generalized administration of the Division and the 
support that it provides to the various boards and programs housed within it. As a result, 
this summary does not address individual programmatic statutory provisions. 
 
For readability purposes, the term “license” is used in a general sense throughout this 
report to refer to credentials issued by the various registration, certification and 
licensure programs that are housed within the Division. The term “licensee” is also used 
in a general sense to refer to individual practitioners and businesses that hold such 
credentials.  
 
The Division is created in sections 12-20-103, 12-20-202 and 12-20-401, C.R.S. The 
Director serves as the head of the Division. In some practice acts, the Director is 
responsible for, among other things, policymaking, rulemaking and imposing discipline 
on licensees. These programs are commonly referred to as “director-model” programs.  
 
In addition to director-model programs, several of the practice acts establish policy 
autonomous regulatory boards, generally referred to as “boards” throughout the report, 
which are responsible for, among other things, rulemaking, policymaking and 
enforcement. These programs are often referred to as “board-model” programs. 
 
The Division also provides supervision and control of advisory boards located within the 
Division.4 Advisory boards are typically associated with director-model programs. 
 
The Division is responsible for, among other things, providing management and support 
to the boards housed within it.5  
 
 
4 § 12-20-103(2), C.R.S. 
5 § 12-20-103(2), C.R.S. 
