 
 
17 | P a g e 
The Enforcement Services section houses enforcement services common to boards and 
director-model programs, including: 
 
• Expedited Settlement, 
• Inspections, and 
• Investigations. 
 
Additionally, the Division has a Policy and Communication section, which supports 
policy development, communication with internal and external stakeholders and 
program outreach and engagement efforts for the Division. 
 
Within the various sections, the Division houses several offices that provide 
management and administrative support to the Division’s programs, such as the:  
 
• Director’s Office, 
• Office of Division-Wide Programs and Systems, 
• Office of Expedited Settlement,  
• Office of Investigations, and 
• Office of Licensing. 
 
 
Licensing 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The Division issues and renews licenses for a vast array of professions, occupations and 
businesses. There are more than 60 professions under the Division’s purview, ranging 
from medical professions such as dentists to other professions such as boxers. In 
particular, the Division also houses numerous programs regulating health-care 
professions, such as acupuncturists, nurses, physicians, psychologists and respiratory 
therapists. A complete list of these programs can be found in Appendix A. 
 
Licensing requirements and procedures are specific to each profession. Generally, 
applicants submit a completed application along with any supporting documentation, 
which may include examination results, educational transcripts and verification of work 
experience. Some professions may require other items, such as evidence of professional 
liability insurance. 
 
In July 2015, the Division introduced online applications. Currently, all professions can 
apply online via the Division’s online licensing system. Any member of the public can 
create an account and apply for one of the Division’s licenses. Each profession has a 
specific portal leading to the application, which allows them to upload required 
