 
 
18 | P a g e 
documents such as education or professional experience. Paper applications are not 
posted on the Division’s website. However, an applicant can contact the Division and 
request a paper application for any program. 
 
Some programs outsource the licensing process to a private contractor, often the 
vendor that administers the licensing examination. In these cases, the third party 
administers these procedures rather than the Division. Certified Nurse Aides, for 
example, apply through an examination vendor. Once all their testing is complete, the 
examination vendor sends the information to the Division. 
 
In 2020, the Division began implementing the Occupational Credential Portability 
Program following the passage of House Bill 20-1326. This program allows individuals 
with current, active licenses issued by another state or U.S. territory to apply for 
licensure through a more streamlined endorsement process, in which credentials must 
be substantially similar to Colorado credentials as listed in the relevant practice act. 
Each regulatory authority establishes, by rule, what constitutes substantially similar 
experience or credentials to qualify for endorsement, unless that program’s practice 
act supersedes these provisions. 14 
 
Once applications are submitted, they are assigned to specific licensing specialists for 
review. If the specialist finds an application to be incomplete, the applicant is sent an 
email so they can log in and review their deficiencies. Applications are valid for one 
year from the date received. Candidates can correct any potential deficiencies during 
this period.  
 
Table 3 illustrates the average time it takes for the Division to process an application 
and subsequently issue a license. 
 
 
 
The remarkable decline demonstrated in Table 3 is due to a long-term goal of the 
Division to decrease the time it takes to issue licenses. To accomplish this, the Division 
added a consolidated licensing team to its staff and underwent a division-wide effort 
to publish more guidance, including the creation of licensing guides and checklists for 
each program.  
 
 
14 § 12-20-202(3), C.R.S. 
