 
 
20 | P a g e 
licenses resulting from the implementation of the Occupational Credential Portability 
Program. 
 
If an individual’s license has been expired for a period of more than two years, they 
must pay all applicable renewal and reinstatement fees and must satisfactorily 
demonstrate that they are still competent to practice.21 The Division may waive the 
requirements for reinstatement of an expired license if an applicant demonstrates 
hardship, so long as the regulatory authority considers the protection of the public in 
the hardship petition.22 
 
Apart from Type 1 boards, the Director may review any examination or procedure for 
granting a license in any regulatory program prior to the implementation of the 
examination or procedure. The Director must determine if there is reason to believe 
the examination or procedure is unfair to applicants or unreasonable in content. If so, 
the Director can call on five people licensed in the occupation or profession to review 
the examination or procedure jointly with the Executive Director. The findings of fact 
and recommendations of such reviews are made public.23 
 
Fee Setting 
 
The Division’s revenue is generated from the fees imposed on regulated practitioners 
and businesses. Most of the fees assessed by the Division are determined 
administratively, although some are capped by statute. 
 
The Division may not issue a new or renewal license to an individual until the applicant 
has paid and the Division has received all applicable fees.24 Proceeds from new and 
renewal license fees are transmitted to the state treasurer, who credits them to the 
Division’s cash fund.25 As part of the Division’s annual budget request, the Director 
proposes an adjustment in the amount of each fee.26 Adjustments must reflect direct 
and indirect costs that are appropriated in the annual general appropriation act.27 
 
Establishing appropriate license fees is a nuanced and intricate process. DORA’s budget 
staff analyzes historical data pertaining to expenses, such as legal costs and personnel 
services, from the preceding five years. The Division also takes into account the size of 
the regulated population and the rate at which it may have increased or decreased.  
 
Budget staff then projects, over a two-year period, the expected costs of each program. 
Calculations are then made to establish the fees at a rate that will meet the current 
year’s allocation while trying to prevent fund deficits and large surpluses in subsequent 
years. If a supplemental appropriation is made by the General Assembly to the Division 
 
21 § 12-20-202(2)(c)(II), C.R.S. 
22 § 12-20-202(2)(c)(III), C.R.S. 
23 § 12-20-202(6)(b), C.R.S. 
24 § 12-20-201, C.R.S. 
25 § 12-20-105(3), C.R.S. 
26 § 12-20-105(2)(b), C.R.S. 
27 Ibid. 
