 
 
21 | P a g e 
for the activities of a regulatory program, fees are adjusted to compensate for the 
supplemental appropriation.28 
 
Fees are set to meet the costs of providing services. The Division strives to maintain 
fees at constant levels. However, numerous factors complicate the fee setting process:  
 
• Some renewal cycles are multiple years, which means that fees must be set to 
generate a fund surplus in the renewal year while preventing a fund deficit in 
non-renewal years; 
• Legal services expenditures tend to be highly variable, especially among 
programs with smaller license populations; 
• Legislative changes may also have fiscal impacts; 
• Staff vacancies may generate fund surpluses when expected costs fail to 
materialize; and 
• Reorganizations can also generate surpluses and deficits in individual programs 
as staff duties are shifted from one area to another. 
 
For each renewal period, in addition to renewal fees, each license is charged one 
dollar,29 which is applied to the Division’s Legal Defense Account (Account).30 The 
Director may allocate legal defense funds to specific programs to pay a portion of those 
programs’ legal expenses. Since the legal expenses paid through the Account are not 
applied towards the programs’ overall expenses, the Legal Defense Fund helps to offset 
fee increases in those programs. 
 
Military and Veterans 
 
Colorado House Bill 16-1197 requires agencies to implement a program to consolidate 
and streamline professional licensing requirements for veterans based on military 
training. 
 
The Division provides support to military personnel such as active-duty personnel, 
members of the Reserves and National Guard, as well as military spouses and veterans. 
These candidates can often receive credit towards the minimum licensure qualifications 
for their military training, service and education.  
 
The bill requires the Division to develop a licensing process for veterans and individuals 
serving in the military. Any training gained during military service can be used to 
supplement professional experience.31 Requirements are also relaxed for applicants 
who already have a military occupational specialty.32  
 
 
28 § 12-20-105(6), C.R.S. 
29 § 12-20-104, C.R.S. 
30 § 12-20-105(5)(a), C.R.S. 
31 § 12-20-202(4), C.R.S. 
32 § 12-20-202(3)(b), C.R.S. 
