 
 
25 | P a g e 
Occupational Specialty, which will allow veterans to directly transfer their military 
experience into a Colorado license with substantially similar requirements. 
 
In 2024, the General Assembly passed House Bill 24-1097. This legislation directed the 
Division to streamline the licensing process for spouses, dependents and Gold Star 
spouses of military personnel stationed in Colorado if they have valid credentials from 
another state. Eligible applicants do not have fees associated with their licenses, which 
are valid six years from issuance.68 
 
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusivity 
 
The Division does not collect any demographic data regarding licensees. Nonetheless, 
it has made strides to streamline the process for individuals that have international 
education or experience which might qualify them for a professional license.  
 
The Division currently has a webpage for applicants with international training, which 
contains some guidance for new Americans in Colorado. It also contains licensing guides 
for Barbers and Cosmetologists and for Professional Engineers.  
 
Some programs have specific directives aimed at streamlining and including 
international qualifications for licensure. For example, in 2019 the General Assembly 
passed House Bill 19-1290. This legislation allows an applicant for a barber, 
cosmetologist, esthetician, nail technician or hairstylist to substitute international work 
experience for required contact hours. Since then, the Division has implemented the 
Barber & Cosmetology Foreign Training Equivalency program. 69 Applicants may 
substitute work experience obtained abroad at a ratio of three months of experience 
for every one hundred training hours. 
 
In 2022, the General Assembly passed House Bill 22-1050. This established specific, 
unique requirements for internationally trained physicians who want to obtain a 
medical license in Colorado.70 The Medical Board may license an applicant with a 
medical degree outside the United States if the applicant meets all the other 
requirements for licensure and holds a specialty board certification. The Medical Board 
must consider the following when considering the qualifications of a medical school 
graduate with international credentials:  
 
• The information available to the Medical Board relating to the medical school of 
the applicant, and  
• The nature and length of the postgraduate training completed by the applicant.71 
 
 
68 § 12-20-202(3)(f), C.R.S. 
69 Department of Regulatory Agencies. Immigrant Licensure Information. Retrieved September 9, 2025, from 
https://dpo.colorado.gov/ImmigrantLicensure 
70 Department of Regulatory Agencies. Medical Licensing Guide. Retrieved September 17, 2025, from 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gGDucX61gU325ZhK1H_WYRkQap3aQVpt/view 
71 § 12-240-114(1), C.R.S. 
