 
 
26 | P a g e 
Examination 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The statutes for many programs require candidates to pass an examination in order to 
receive a license. In some cases, that examination is state-specific, for example: 
 
• Mental Health Jurisprudence Examination, 
• Nursing Home Administrators, 
• Professional Land Surveyors, and 
• Psychiatric Technicians. 
The Division neither develops nor administers any examinations. In the case of state-
specific examinations, the Division uses outside vendors for examination creation and 
administration.  
 
Two vendors the Division often partners with are Prometric and PSI. Candidates work 
directly with the vendor to complete any tests. Once all their testing requirements are 
completed, the examination vendor sends the information to the Division.  
 
 
Complaint Activity 
 
The tenth sunset criterion requires COPRRR to examine whether complaint, 
investigation and disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public and whether 
final dispositions of complaints are in the public interest or self-serving to the 
profession or regulated entity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
this criterion.  
 
When the regulatory authority receives a complaint concerning a regulated individual 
or business, program staff reviews it and typically sends a 30-day letter to the licensee, 
also referred to as the respondent. In addition to notifying respondents of the 
complaints filed against them, the 30-day letter provides respondents with an 
opportunity to formally respond to the allegations. In most practice acts, the 
respondent is required to formally respond to the 30-day letter; otherwise, they may 
be subject to discipline by the regulatory authority. 
 
There are situations, however, where certain complaints do not follow this “30-day 
letter” process. These complaints usually include issues that require a more immediate 
