 
 
27 | P a g e 
response, such as alleged drug use, sexual misconduct or practicing without a license. 
These types of complaints are forwarded directly to the Office of Investigations for 
investigation. Importantly, the respondents of these types of complaints are still able 
to formally respond to the allegations against them, just at a different stage of the 
process. 
 
After all of the information is submitted to the program staff, the complaint and 
correspondence from the respondent and complainant are provided to the regulatory 
authority for review. 
 
Upon reviewing the information, the regulatory authority has several options available, 
including referring the case to the Office of Investigations. 
 
When a complaint is referred to the Office of Investigations, investigators acts as an 
impartial, neutral fact finder and does not “represent” the complainant, the regulatory 
authority, or the licensee.72 As such, investigators are tasked with conducting research, 
which may include interviewing the complainants and respondents. An investigator may 
subpoena or otherwise obtain copies of pertinent documents, and where appropriate, 
may retain an expert consultant to review a case.73 While an investigator is typically 
assigned many investigations each year,  the goal of the Office of Investigations is to 
complete an investigation within 180 days.74 However, investigations vary in complexity 
and some necessitate additional time to complete. Once an investigation is complete, 
the investigator drafts a report, which contains their findings from the investigation, 
and submits it to the regulatory authority. 
 
Table 5 highlights the total number of complaints received by all programs in the 
Division in the past five fiscal years, as well as the average number of days it took to 
complete investigations each fiscal year. 
 
 
72 DORA Division of Professions and Occupations.  Office of Investigations.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from Office of 
Enforcement to Office of Investigations, Inspections & Expedited Settlement | Divisions of Professions and 
Occupations 
73 DORA Division of Professions and Occupations.  Office of Investigations.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from Office of 
Enforcement to Office of Investigations, Inspections & Expedited Settlement | Divisions of Professions and 
Occupations 
74 DORA Division of Professions and Occupations.  Office of Investigations.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from Office of 
Enforcement to Office of Investigations, Inspections & Expedited Settlement | Divisions of Professions and 
Occupations 
