 
 
30 | P a g e 
As Table 7 illustrates, from fiscal year 19-20 to 23-24, the total number of fines imposed 
and the value of fines imposed decreased significantly. Regulatory authorities within 
Division have discretion when imposing fines on practitioners. As such, Division staff 
stated that it is difficult to point to an overarching trend; therefore, it is impossible to 
explain the stark decrease in the utilization of fining authority by boards or the 
Director. 
 
 
Outreach and Engagement 
 
The seventh sunset criterion questions: 
 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
this criterion.  
 
The Division utilizes a variety of methods to communicate with both licensees and 
members of the public regarding the regulatory programs that it oversees, including 
website updates, publications, informational videos and email. These tools are used to 
provide updated information regarding procedural changes and to clarify the Division’s 
processes and procedures. Each program has the ability to utilize these tools when 
needed. However, the Division has also developed procedures which are often 
implemented across programs to bolster outreach and engagement. 
 
Website 
 
The Division maintains a public website that links to webpages for each regulatory 
program. Staff update the website frequently in order to communicate important 
information or changes regarding each program. In the website, staff also maintain 
subpages that address specific topics, such as the role of the Division or the process for 
filing a complaint or applying for a license. 
 
Publications 
 
The Division produces a number of publications that it posts on program webpages. As 
of the writing of this report, there are 42 licensing guides available. Publications may 
also address topics such as the Division’s role in the regulatory process, surprise billing 
and apprenticeships. Further, publications may be created when a new board or 
program is implemented in order to inform consumers regarding any new regulatory 
processes. 
 
