 
 
31 | P a g e 
To determine if a new publication would be beneficial for a specific regulatory program, 
the Division’s policy and communications team regularly reviews and receives 
comments from stakeholders and engages in conversations with program staff. 
 
Informational Videos 
 
Similarly, the Division utilizes comments from licensees, consumers and program staff 
to determine if a video on a certain topic should be developed. Communications staff 
regularly meets with the Division’s customer care team regarding the types of 
information that might be beneficial to disseminate to the public, depending on the 
types of questions being received by the customer care staff. The Division’s Public 
Information Officer may also create additional videos covering a wide range of subjects, 
such as license application and renewal, compact state information and how to file a 
complaint. Informational videos are often developed in multiple languages and utilize 
subtitles to make them accessible to a larger audience.  
 
E-blasts 
 
The Division has the ability to send mass emails, or e-blasts, to licensees. E-blasts can 
be sent to licensees for many reasons, for example: to address common questions, 
sharing rulemaking information, convey information regarding license renewal or, 
occasionally, collect stakeholder comments. Staff often consult with the program’s 
director and the Division’s policy and communications team to determine the proper 
method to disseminate the information contained in the e-blast. 
 
Additionally, the Division’s Public Information Officer works with the legislative team 
to ensure that information regarding new laws is shared with licensees. The Division’s 
program staff may also utilize e-blasts to provide scam alerts. 
 
Newsletters 
 
Newsletters are a regular form of e-blasts sent to licensees, which may be sent on a 
quarterly or monthly basis. However, the State Board of Pharmacy, which it is 
statutorily mandated to share certain legislative information with licensees, is the only 
regulatory program currently employing this method of outreach. While any regulatory 
board or program may opt to provide a newsletter, e-blasts and other forms of 
communication have become more commonplace. 
 
Customer Service/Consumer Protection Committee 
 
The Division has created a committee, comprised of Division staff, that develops ideas 
to make the Division’s internal and external communications more accessible and easier 
to digest. Although this committee is not public facing, the members of the committee 
consider comments from consumers and program staff when developing any new 
communications strategy. 
 
 
