 
 
33 | P a g e 
share of entrepreneurs in the state who are immigrants was 12.2 percent in 2024.82 
Further, 11.2 percent of the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) 
workforce was made up of immigrants.83  
 
In some instances, new Americans were distinguished in their country of origin. They 
may have been coveted educators, led successful companies or even ran large medical 
facilities. However, once in Colorado, they may be employed significantly below their 
skill level because employers and credentialing bodies fail to recognize or assess their 
skills. 
 
In the past several years, the Division of Professions and Occupations (Division) has 
taken many steps to create opportunities for internationally trained practitioners living 
in Colorado to pursue licensure in the occupation or profession for which they have 
been trained and licensed in other countries or jurisdictions. This recommendation 
seeks to increase occupational portability for all professions by giving regulatory 
programs the authority to determine substantial equivalency for each profession.  
 
The Occupational Credential Portability Program, located in section 12-20-202(3), 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), outlines authority to determine substantial 
equivalence as it applies to licensure requirements. This provision, however, may be 
limited by individual practice acts. Because of this, some practice acts severely limit 
the ability of individuals trained outside of the United States to obtain an occupational 
or professional license in Colorado, despite having practiced for many years and having 
appropriate education. Regrettably, the current statutory language creates barriers for 
the Occupational Credential Portability Program and decreases opportunities to grow 
the workforce in this state.  
 
Section 12-20-202(3)(d), C.R.S., states: 
 
A regulator may specify by rule what constitutes substantially equivalent 
experience or credentials and, unless otherwise prohibited by this Title 
12, shall allow an applicant for certification, registration, or licensure by 
endorsement to demonstrate competency in a specific profession or 
occupation as determined by the regulator in lieu of a requirement that 
the applicant has worked or practiced in that profession or occupation for 
a period of time prior to the application for endorsement. 
 
If the language in this section were to change from “unless otherwise prohibited” to 
“notwithstanding other provisions within,” the regulatory authority, either the Director 
of the Division (Director) or a regulatory board, would have the ability to evaluate 
credentials to determine if they meet the requirements for licensure.  
 
At least two other states, Florida and New Hampshire, have recently enacted similar 
provisions. 
 
82 Office of New Americans Annual Report SFY2024, The Office of New Americans (2025), p. 33. 
83 Ibid. 
