 
 
34 | P a g e 
In 2023, Florida enacted Senate Bill 1364, which states:  
 
Notwithstanding any other law, a board must issue an occupational license 
or a government certification to an applicant for such license or 
certification if all of the following apply (1) the applicant holds a current 
valid occupational license or government certification issued by another 
licensing entity in a lawful occupation with a similar scope of practice as 
determined by a board of this state . . . 
 
This statute allows boards to provide licensure through portability not only to 
candidates from other states but also to internationally trained practitioners.  
 
In 2023, New Hampshire also enacted a similar bill, House Bill 594, which reads:  
 
Notwithstanding any other state law to the contrary, the office shall issue 
licenses to professionals who present evidence of an active license in good 
standing from another jurisdiction, in accordance with rules adopted by 
the executive director under RSA 541-A, provided that the jurisdiction's 
licensing requirements are substantially similar to New Hampshire's 
licensing requirements, as determined by the executive director in 
consultation with the boards, commissions, and councils within the office. 
. . . 
 
This bill seems to allow internationally trained practitioners to be licensed by 
endorsement. 
 
In order to understand this issue better, COPRRR conducted a survey of the Division’s 
licensees and asked respondents to rate their experience, if appropriate, in submitting 
evidence of international training and education.  Over half (53 percent) of respondents 
rated their experience as “Good” or “Excellent,” and 29 percent indicated that the 
question was not applicable to them. While this indicates that the Division has 
accomplished much in this area, the restrictive statutory language highlighted above 
could be amended to enable even greater progress. 
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial creation 
of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would 
warrant more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. The third criterion 
asks whether the existing rules and regulations establish the least restrictive form of 
governmental oversight consistent with the public interest, considering other available 
regulatory mechanisms. The eleventh criterion looks at the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation and if it contributes to the optimum use of personnel, and the 
twelfth criterion questions whether entry requirements encourage equity, diversity and 
inclusivity.  
 
Changing the current statutory language to address the integration and inclusion of 
internationally trained applicants in Colorado will help to fill crucial gaps in the state’s 
