 
 
35 | P a g e 
workforce, drive greater innovation and entrepreneurship throughout the state, and 
improve Colorado’s economy overall.  
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should clarify that the Occupational 
Credential Portability Program applies to all internationally trained practitioners 
regulated by the boards and programs housed within the Division. 
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Authorize boards to craft delegation policies that allow 
them to more efficiently work with the Division to gather information and to 
take actions that would be ratified at the next board meeting. 
 
While no clear statutory provisions prohibit boards from delegating certain tasks to staff 
or to a single board member, some have interpreted the lack of explicit authority as 
meaning that boards cannot delegate those functions that require even the smallest 
amount of independent judgment. This can cause delays in case processing and board 
action. 
 
For example, when a complaint is received by a board concerning a licensee, the 
complaint is often scheduled to be reviewed at the next board meeting. If the board 
determines that there may be a violation of the practice act but needs more 
information to make such a determination, it may request that staff gather the 
additional information. Then, at the next board meeting, the board can review the 
additional information and move the case forward as appropriate. 
 
This process is inefficient, particularly in instances when staff can anticipate what 
additional information may be needed but cannot obtain it without direction from the 
board. For instance, some boards meet on a quarterly basis, so if a complaint is filed 
days after a board meeting, the complaint against the licensee will not be scheduled 
to be reviewed by the board for several months. Once the complaint is calendared for 
the next board meeting, the board then will determine whether and what additional 
information it needs, thereby directing staff to compile the requested information for 
review. If the board determines that a violation of the practice act may have occurred, 
it can decide to impose discipline or, conversely, dismiss the case. In this example, the 
process may take six months or longer to determine whether a licensee will be 
disciplined for violations of the practice act. This prolonged process means that a 
potentially dangerous licensee can continue to practice, and it also means that a 
potentially innocent licensee must live with the specter of potential discipline. 
 
Similarly, when the Division receives a complaint that indicates conduct so egregious 
that emergent action, such as a summary suspension, is necessary to protect the public, 
staff must organize an emergency meeting of the board so that the board can take the 
necessary votes to approve the desired course of action.  However, it can be logistically 
challenging to schedule emergency meetings among practicing professionals. It can take 
several weeks to coordinate schedules to hold such a meeting. During that period, the 
egregious conduct is allowed to continue. 
