 
 
36 | P a g e 
While the board should absolutely be involved in such decisions, the requirement that 
the board hold a formal vote on an emergency action may lead to greater consumer 
harm. 
 
Rather, it would be more efficient to allow the boards to develop policies delegating 
authority to someone—a board president, a board member or even the Director—to take 
action, which could then be ratified at the next board meeting. This would enable swift 
action while still ensuring the legitimate oversight of the board involved.  
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that 
the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently 
and effectively.  As highlighted above, the current process utilized by boards to compile 
information and to take emergency action is inefficient. Enhancing efficiency among 
boards may be achieved by authorizing them to create policies that would enable staff 
to compile information prior to board meetings and to take emergent action that would 
be subsequently ratified.   
 
Finally, during the course of this sunset review, COPRRR conducted informational 
surveys addressing a variety of issues. COPRRR surveyed more than 200 board members 
asking, among other things, “Should all boards in the Division of Professions and 
Occupations be authorized to develop policies delegating specific tasks to staff to 
streamline case management and allow the board to take action more quickly when 
there is a threat to public safety?  For example, gathering complaint documentation 
prior to a board meeting?” More than 90 percent of board member respondents were in 
favor of authorizing boards to develop policies delegating specific tasks to staff.     
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should authorize boards to craft both emergent and 
general delegation policies that allow them to more efficiently work with the Division 
to direct board staff to take actions the board determines are necessary to more 
expediently process and resolve cases and other items that would be ratified at the 
next board meeting. This will create a more efficient and streamlined process.  
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Amend the statute to allow a licensee who receives a 
letter of admonition to request a hearing within 25 days of issuance of the 
letter of admonition, rather than within 20 days of receipt.  
 
Section 12-20-404(4)(b)(I), C.R.S., states that when a regulatory authority within the 
Division sends a letter of admonition to a licensee, the regulatory authority must advise 
the licensee that they have the right to request, in writing, within 20 days of receipt 
of the letter, that the regulatory authority vacate the letter of admonition and initiate 
formal disciplinary proceedings to adjudicate the propriety of the conduct upon which 
the letter of admonition is based.  
 
Currently, it is difficult for the regulatory authority to determine when a licensee 
ultimately receives a letter of admonition. Starting the clock upon receipt can also 
