 
 
37 | P a g e 
cause confusion for a licensed practitioner—did the clock start when the letter was 
deposited in the licensee’s mailbox, or did it start when the licensee opened the letter? 
 
In the end, the regulatory authority does not know if the licensee adhered to the 20-
day requirement. As such, the statute should be amended to start the clock upon 
issuance of the letter, rather than receipt. To accommodate transit time for the letter, 
the statute should allow the licensee to request a hearing 25 days after issuance of a 
letter of admonition, rather than its receipt. Doing so will provide greater clarity within 
the statute and would assist both the regulatory authority and the licensee in 
determining whether a request to initiate formal disciplinary proceedings occurs within 
the allowable timeframe. 
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that 
the agency or agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties effectively 
and efficiently. Updating the statute to authorize licensees to request the initiation of 
formal disciplinary proceedings within 25 days of issuance of letters of admonition will 
enable everyone to more accurately determine whether recipients are in compliance 
with the statute. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend the statute to allow a licensee who 
receives a letter of admonition to request a hearing within 25 days of issuance of the 
letter of admonition, rather than within 20 days of receipt.   
 
 
Recommendation 4 — Authorize the Division to send correspondence to 
licensees electronically. 
 
The Division has modernized many of its communication processes, such as enabling the 
renewal of licenses to be completed through an on-line system. The Division utilizes 
email to inform licensees about license renewals. Also, the vast majority of 
communication between Division staff and licensees occurs with electronic 
correspondence. 
 
However, language in the statute still requires the Division to communicate with 
licensees via mail. This not only requires the expenditure of resources, but it also 
precludes the ability of the Division to provide legal notice by email. 
 
The statute should be updated to reflect common communication practices, including 
electronic communication. For example, Recommendation 3 in this sunset review 
highlights language contained in section 12-20-404(4)(b)(I), C.R.S., which concerns 
letters of admonition. Clearly, the statute does not prohibit sending letters attached 
to an email, but the language does not authorize electronic correspondence only. 
 
Since email correspondence is widely utilized between the Division and regulated 
practitioners, the statute should be updated to allow electronic correspondence in all 
areas of the statute. Importantly, authorizing the utilization of electronic 
