 
 
38 | P a g e 
correspondence should be permissive, not mandatory. The Division should be authorized 
to utilize first-class mail delivery if, for example, staff are unable to identify a current 
email address for a regulated practitioner. Staff should also be authorized to utilize 
electronic correspondence or first-class mail for the delivery of administrative 
subpoenas. 
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that 
the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently 
and effectively. Authorizing electronic correspondence for all communication with the 
Division and licensees will allow an additional option for communication and facilitate 
enhanced efficiency. 
 
As such, the General Assembly should authorize electronic communication for all 
correspondence between the Division and licensees. 
 
 
Recommendation 5 — Modernize the Legal Defense Account surcharge to 
account for inflation.  
 
The Division is primarily cash funded through the initial and renewal license fees that 
are paid by the practitioners and businesses regulated by the Director and the boards 
housed within the Division. As the regulatory programs within the Division are cash 
funded, the license fees must cover the costs of regulation. One of those costs is legal 
services, which are highly variable and can significantly increase the cost of regulation 
in any one year.  
 
To help supplement the cost of legal services of individual programs, the General 
Assembly created the Legal Defense Account (Account).84 Funds in the Account may be 
used to help pay legal expenses incurred by any one of the Division’s programs.85 The 
Director annually determines which programs should receive funds from the Account. 
Overall, the Account is a helpful mechanism for the Division to cover a portion of the 
legal costs for individual programs and to mitigate potential fee increases for the 
practitioners licensed by these programs.  
 
In the five years examined for this sunset review, total legal expenses for the Division 
ranged from $3.1 million in fiscal year 21-22 to $5.2 million in fiscal year 23-24. Legal 
expenses include costs associated with holding administrative hearings, charges for 
legal services provided by the Attorney General’s Office, and costs for administrative 
law judge services.86 It also includes the costs associated with investigative work and 
hiring expert witnesses or consultants.87 Legal expenses are also incurred when various 
regulatory boards and programs are sued in civil court for enforcing new laws passed 
by the General Assembly. 
 
84 § 12-20-105(5)(a), C.R.S. 
85 Ibid. 
86 § 12-20-105(5)(b), C.R.S. 
87 Ibid. 
