 
 
40 | P a g e 
Director then has the discretion to authorize how much of the funds in the Account will 
be used and to which programs they should be applied.93 
 
Importantly, this surcharge does not apply to renewal fees paid by nurse aides94 or 
licensed businesses. 
 
The fifth criterion asks whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether 
its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, practices and any other 
circumstances, including budgetary, resource and personnel matters. The tenth 
criterion asks whether complaint, investigation and disciplinary procedures adequately 
protect the public.  
 
While raising fees is not desirable, in this instance, an increase can help reduce the risk 
of drastic fluctuations in license fees. Licensee fees are based on the cost of the 
program, and legal fees are often a significant portion of that cost. For example, when 
a program has more disciplinary cases than usual, it may significantly higher legal fees. 
These costs are then passed along to licensees in the form of a fee increase. In some 
programs with a high number of licensees, any fee increase due to increased legal 
expenses is negligible. In very small programs, however, legal fees can result in a 
significant portion of the program’s budget. Because of this, legal defense funds are 
especially critical for smaller programs where a single legal case can significantly 
increase fees for all licensees within the program. For example, if there are 100 
licensees in a program, a single case with $10,000 in legal fees would result in a fee 
increase of $100 per licensee. That same case spread across 100,000 licensees would 
result in a fee increase of $0.10 per licensee. 
 
An increase in the dollar surcharge would support the Division’s goal to mitigate 
significant license fee increases. If the surcharge were hypothetically set at $2 in fiscal 
year 21-22, instead of $1, a total of $1,088,000 would have been allocated to the 
Account.  
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial creation 
of the program have changed.  
 
The surcharge was established in 1997 and has remained static ever since. However, 
the rise in inflation has reduced the buying power of the dollar since the establishment 
of the fee. In August 1997, $1 had the same buying power as $2.01 in August 2025.95 
Hence, doubling the surcharge would be a proper measure to modernize the surcharge.  
 
The Account is the Division’s only tool to offset some of the legal expenses so that small 
regulatory programs do not incur large license fee increases in any given year. There is 
no way to accurately estimate legal fees, or spread them across multiple years, as 
 
93 Ibid. 
94 § 12-20-104(1), C.R.S. 
95 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. CPI Inflation Calculator. Retrieved October 3, 2025, from 
www.bls.gov/data/inflation_calculator.htm 
