 
 
41 | P a g e 
license fees depend almost entirely on cases received by the Division and the legal costs 
of adjudicating these cases. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should modernize the surcharge used to 
fund the Account by increasing it from $1 to $2. This will help the Division to continue 
to mitigate significant license fee increases in the programs affected by unusually high 
legal costs and account for inflation since the inception of the surcharge. The $1 
increase reflects the change in spending power due to inflation since the establishment 
of the surcharge. 
 
 
Recommendation 6 — Clarify that the Division, not individual regulatory 
boards, has the authority to enter into contracts with third-party vendors, 
but that the boards should be consulted when doing so. 
 
One of the Division’s main functions is to provide administrative support to the boards 
housed within it. These boards typically consist of licensed practitioners, who serve as 
subject matter experts, and public members. The boards review license applications, 
complaint and investigatory files and make determinations as to whether discipline 
should be imposed and what that discipline should be. Thus, the boards are tasked with 
protecting the public. 
 
To support the boards in this mission, the Division, among many other things, 
 
• Processes license applications, 
• Receives and processes complaints, 
• Investigates complaints, 
• Oversees compliance with stipulated agreements or terms of probation, 
• Oversees compliance with continuing education requirements, 
• Provides logistical support for board meetings, and 
• Enters into and manages contracts with third-party vendors. 
 
The last bullet regarding contracts is the subject of this recommendation. Among the 
types of contracts that the Division may enter into and manage are those for the 
administration of licensing examinations and the provision of peer health assistance 
services for licensees. 
 
However, while many practice acts are silent on contracting authority, which therefore 
defaults to the Division, some are not. 
 
For example, the statutes regulating mental health professionals specify that the 
Director, in consultation with the various mental health boards, selects the peer health 
assistance provider. 96 Other practice acts that authorize peer health assistance 
programs specify that the board selects the peer health assistance provider. These 
 
96 § 12-245-231(1)(b), C.R.S. 
