 
 
43 | P a g e 
enter into these contracts would be more efficient and acknowledge what is otherwise 
common practice. 
 
However, as subject matter experts with regard to the practitioners that the boards 
regulate, the Division should still consult with the boards when engaging in the 
contracting process. This will help to ensure that the needs of licensed practitioners 
are taken into consideration. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should amend the statutes enumerated 
above to clarify that the Division, not individual regulatory boards, has the authority to 
enter into contracts with third-party vendors, but that the relevant board should be 
consulted in doing so. 
 
 
Administrative Recommendation 1 — The Division should develop a process 
whereby licensees and members of the public can easily locate and access 
application questions. 
 
For most practitioners regulated by the boards and programs housed in the Division, 
obtaining a license is the culmination of months or years of study, training and 
assessments. 
 
For many, the licensing process begins by submitting an application to the Division. 
Licensure application questions are designed to solicit the information necessary for 
the Division to determine whether the applicant satisfies the licensing requirements. 
As a result, licensees and other interested members of the public may need to view 
application questions outside of the application process. For example, licensees may 
choose to prepare in advance for the application process and may need to know what 
will be asked of them in order to do so, or a member of the public might be curious 
regarding the types of questions that are asked to determine competency.  
 
Throughout this sunset review, stakeholders raised concerns regarding the difficulty to 
view initial and renewal license application questions outside of the actual application 
process.   
 
Application questions are not available on any of the program websites that the Division 
manages. Although questions can be viewed through the Division’s online licensing 
system, accessing the questions requires a person to first create a login, to submit 
personal information, including the name, Social Security number and date of birth, 
among other things. Once in the online system, the applicant can select the program 
for which they would like to view the application. However, links to the application 
provide a page-by-page view of several questions per page, requiring that the questions 
be filled out in order to see the next page. In other words, application questions cannot 
be viewed through the online system without simultaneously filling out the application. 
 
