Updated:  May 21, 2015 
25 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Chapter VI - Variances 
Zoning Variance 
Many Planned Developments allow administrative (staff) approval of variances under 10% of the 
requirement, such as setbacks. All other code deviations must either be approved on a Site 
Development Plan or Planned Development by Town Council, or as a separate variance application to 
the Board of Adjustment.  Please contact the Development Services Department for zoning variance 
questions and applications. 
The Board of Adjustment is responsible to hear and decide requests for zoning and sign variances 
(Section 17.06.020) based on specific review criteria for zoning variances  or for sign variances (Section 
19.04.080). The Board of Adjustment also hears and decides variances reasonable accommodations for 
persons with a disability (Section 17.06.020).  Finally, the Board of Adjustment is responsible for hearing 
appeals to any order, requirement, decision or determination made by administrative official (Section 
17.06.020).  Decisions of the Board of Adjustment are final subject to judicial review. Unless otherwise 
approved, the applicant has six months to apply for a building permit in accordance with the variance, 
and all new construction shall be completed within one year from the time the building permit is issued 
(Section 17.06.020). 
ubmittal Requirements for Zoning Variance: 
◦
Application and fee(see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
◦
Proof of Property Ownership/Approval of Property Owner 
◦
Site plan and/or architectural drawings showing property lines, setbacks, location of existing 
structures, location or proposed/new structures on the subject property and building elevations, 
and photos, as necessary. 
◦
Narrative stating the applicants’ request. If the applicant is requesting a variance from the 
Municipal Code regulations, the narrative should include a description of the practical difficulty 
or unnecessary hardship caused to the applicant if strict enforcement of the regulations is 
applied. 
S 
Review Process for Zoning Variance: 
1. Applicant submits the application, filing fee, and other documentation. 
2. For variances that can be processed administratively, staff issues approval or denial. If staff 
denies a variance, the applicant may appeal the decision, which is reviewed by the Board of 
Adjustment as described below. 
3. For variances that must be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment, the applicant must comply 
with the public hearing notice requirements in Section 17.04.050. 
4. The Board of Adjustment reviews the request in a public hearing and approves, approves with 
conditions, or denies the variance. 
5. If the variance is approved, the Board of Adjustment formulates a written finding as part of the 
record, stating the practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship involved and whether adverse 
effect on public health, safety and welfare, is caused by approval of the applicants’ request. The 
Board of Adjustment has final authority, subject to judicial review in District Court. 
