Updated:  May 21, 2015 
40 
 
 
• 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development Plan/Public Hearing review.  Staff will need to evaluate the proposed change and 
determine if it may result in a change to the approved site buffering. 
Minor changes may be made in the field at the inspector’s discretion. 
Minor Field Change Orders: 
•
Changes to the Phasing plan for construction. 
•
Any revisions to the approved Construction or GESC plans, except those listed above as 
approvable in the field, and that do not require any changes to the approved design reports for 
the site. 
•
Revised Cost Estimate. 
Major Field Change Orders: 
•
Any revisions to the approved Construction or GESC plans, except those listed above as 
approvable in the field or listed as Minor changes, which affects the functional aspects of the 
work and requires revisions to the approved design reports for the site. Examples include: 
changes in street width, sizing of utility mains, sizing of stormwater facilities, etc. 
Submittal Requirement for Field Change Orders (FCO): 
o Application 
o Review fee for either Major or Minor FCO (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval from the land 
owner is required. 
o Affected Construction Plans sheets – with bubbles around all proposed changes.  The Revision 
block of each affected plan sheet should include the Revision number and reference to the FCO 
number and approval date.  For first submittal it may be “1 - FCOXX-XXXX Approved 
XX/XX/XXX”. Submit all sheets that are affected.  For example, if grading is changed, and it 
appears on multiple sheets, then all sheets showing the revised grading will be resubmitted for 
review, with bubbles around the changed area. 
o Revised Engineer’s Cost Estimate, if needed 
o Revised Phase III Drainage Report, if needed 
o Revised Final Utility Report, if needed 
o Technical Criteria Variance – If you are proposing any variations from the Technical design 
criteria in the Technical Manuals, please submit the appropriate supporting information on the 
Technical Criteria Variance form with the submission of your Field Change Order 
o If new Easements are needed due to the proposed Field Change Order, submit Easement legal 
descriptions and exhibits, along with a current Ownership & Encumbrance report 
Review Process for Field Change Order: 
1. Applicant submits Field Change Order Documents and fees. 
2. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and utilities, if 
applicable. 
3. Staff reviews submittal package documents and issues comments and redlines, including any 
external comments that may be received. 
4. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
5. Staff issues approval or denial. 
Approval Process: 
6. If Field Change Order is approved, then the affected plan sheets and any revised cost estimate 
or reports can be prepared, signed by the Professional Engineer and submitted to the Town for 
approval signature. 
