Updated:  May 21, 2015 
24 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wireless Facilities 
All new facilities require a Use by Special Review (USBR) site plan, which is submitted to the 
Development Services Department for review and then reviewed by Planning Commission and must 
approved by Town Council before a new facility may be constructed within the Town. Co-locations can 
be approved administratively in the Development Services Department as an amendment to the existing 
Use by Special Review prior to issuance of a building permit.  See Personal Wireless Service Facilities 
(Chapter 17.60) 
Submittal Requirements for Wireless UBSR (see Wireless UBSR checklist): 
◦
Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
◦
Title commitment (current within 180 days) 
◦
Site plan including land uses, property lines, setbacks, location, height and design of tower, 
antennas and equipment, building elevations, easements, streets and right-of-ways, access and 
parking, landscaping and screening, walls and fences, colors and lighting 
◦
Notarized letter stating that antenna usage will not interfere with any neighboring transmission 
or reception functions and that facility will comply with all applicable standards and regulations 
◦
Proof that provider is licensed by the FCC 
◦
Proof of any existing leases for telecommunications facilities 
Review Process for Wireless UBSR: 
1. Neighborhood meeting (recommended) 
2. Determine appropriate location (see Sections 17.60.030 thru 17.60.060) 
3. Applicant submits Wireless Use by Special Review application and fee. 
4. Staff review of submittal package documents in relation to review criteria in Section 17.60.080 
and 17.60.090 and issues approval or denial. 
5. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
6. If it is a co-location, staff can approve administratively (denials can be appealed to Town Council 
as set forth in Section 17.04.110). 
Additional steps for Public Hearings: 
7. If it is a new facility, a public hearing before Planning Commission will be scheduled. 
Commission makes a recommendation to Town Council. Public notice is required (Section 
17.04.050). 
8. Town Council reviews in a public hearing and makes the final determination for approval or 
denial. 
