Updated:  May 21, 2015 
53 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Department Field Inspection: 

All field inspection requests require a 24-hour notice (please call: 303-660-1066). Requests 
with less than 24-hour notice may not be met. However, the goal of the Life Safety Division is 
to meet reasonable inspection requests. (For example, if the contractor is requesting a field 
inspection on Wednesday at 8:00 a.m., the contractor will need to make that request on 
Tuesday before 8:00 a.m.) 

On large construction projects the inspector strives to stop by each site every other day. This 
allows for a meeting between the inspector and the contractor to address any needs that they 
may have. This will also allow for a site inspection, if needed. 
Certificate of Completion or Occupancy: 
1. All final approval letters must be turned in (see Certificate of Occupancy checklist) 
2. All authorities over the permit must sign off, such as: Fire, Health Dept., Utilities, Public Works, 
Metro Districts, etc. 
3. The inspection card must be complete and approved by the inspector 
4. When all above items are submitted and approved, the Certificate of Completion (CC) or 
Certificate of Occupancy (CO) will be issued within 24-hours. 
Fire Permits 
Fire suppression, fire alarm, commercial hood systems, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), underground 
storage tanks (UST), aboveground storage tanks (AST) and hazardous materials inventory plan review 
are submitted, paid for and picked up at the Fire Department Headquarters, 300 Perry Street. 
Temporary Use Permit 
Temporary Use Permits should be submitted to the Zoning Division in the Development Services 
Department, located at 100 N. Wilcox St.  The following uses may be operated as temporary uses for a 
limited time period and need not be enclosed (see definitions in Section 17.16.020): 
•
Farmer’s Market/Seasonal Sales 
•
Sidewalk Sale 
•
Truckload Sale 
•
Mobile Vendor 
•
Public Interest or Special Event 
The following buildings/storage uses are allowed with a temporary Use permit (see definitions in Section 
17.16.020): 
•
Manufactured Building 
•
Model Home/Sales Office 
•
Portable Storage Unit 
•
Temporary Building/Storage Yard 
Submittal Requirements 
o Completed Temporary Use Permit Application and fee (see Development Services Fee 
Schedule). 
o Property owner authorization 
o Narrative describing request for temporary use, length or time requested, existing site 
conditions and other relevant information for consideration of approval. 
