 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
7. Applicant will need to pick up Town Approved documents; scan all items; and return full size 
originals, two sets of 11x17 sized plan sets, and electronic copies of each item prior to being able 
to obtain a Construction or GESC Permit. If the applicant already has an applicable Construction 
or GESC Permit, then they will need to provide all of these items prior to beginning the 
construction on the areas affected by the Field Change Order. 
Financial Sureties 
Various financial sureties are required for Construction and GESC permits, and for the warranty phase of 
public infrastructure acceptance.  These various types of sureties, their required amounts, and the 
timing of their submittal are listed in detail in Chapter 15.58 of the Municipal Code and in Section 4.10 
of the GESC Manual. 
Construction Performance Surety: 
Construction of public infrastructure requires the submittal of Performance Surety prior to being issued 
a construction permit, and then the submittal of a Warranty Surety after construction is completed and 
the project enters the warranty period. 
Unless otherwise specified by a Franchise Agreement with the Town or superseded by the site’s 
Development Agreement or Improvement Agreement with the Town, a Performance Surety typically 
securing the completion of all Public Improvements shall be provided to the Town prior to a 
Construction Permit being issued. The amount of the required Performance Surety is determined based 
on the Town Approved Engineer’s Cost Estimate for the subject work, along with the type of security 
that is provided, per the table listed below: 
Performance Surety Type 
(Construction Permits Only) 
Performance Surety Amount, based on 
Percentage of the Public Improvements listed on 
the Engineer’s Cost Estimate 
Bond 
100% 
Irrevocable Letter of Credit 
75% 
Cash or Escrow Account 
65% 
The Developer shall have the option of providing one construction Performance Surety for all the Public 
Improvements, or they can provide two separate Performance Sureties for Below-ground work and 
Above-ground work. 
Below-ground work includes, but is not limited to, over lot grading or earth excavation 
processes, storm drain facilities, culverts, channels, water distribution or transmission facilities, 
sanitary sewer collection facilities, water and wastewater treatment facilities or any other 
related facilities located below ground. 
Above-ground work includes, but is not limited to, pavement, curb and gutter, sidewalk, 
pedestrian/bike/equestrian paths, street lighting, bridges, pavement markings/signage/striping, 
traffic signals, stormwater ponds, or any other facilities located above ground. 
Upon request, the Performance Surety(s) may be reduced incrementally as general phases of the Project 
are completed in conformance with the Plans and to the satisfaction of the Town. The Developer must 
provide a revised cost estimate to the Town, showing separate sub-totals for the above ground and 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
