 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
) 
 
 
Annexation: 
10. Staff reviews application documents and issues response comments and redlines. 
11. Town staff sends out external referrals to appropriate agencies and dry utilities. 
12. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
13. Town staff schedules an Annexation hearing to be held before the Planning Commission at least 
10 days prior to the date of the Town Council Annexation hearing. 
14. Town staff schedules an Annexation hearing to be held before the Town Council not later than 
180 days from the date of the resolution of eligibility, unless deferred in writing by the 
petitioner(s).  There are specific annexation review criteria (Section 20.02.040) and if the 
request is water short, the applicant must demonstrate that exceptional qualities (Chapter 4.04) 
are met. 
15. Staff prepares the staff report including a recommendation regarding the Annexation and 
Development Agreement. 
16. Public notice (Section 20.02.020) is required prior to hearings. 
17. Planning Commission reviews in a public hearing and makes a recommendation to Town 
Council. 
18. Town Council reviews in a public hearing and makes the final determination by ordinance, 
whether the property is annexed. 
19. Water rights adjudication:  As a condition of annexation, the petitioner(s) provides evidence that 
water rights associated with the property have been adjudicated and dedicate all rights to the 
Denver Basin groundwater underlying the annexed property to the Town.  The Town creates the 
water bank. (See Section 4.04.050.A of the Municipal Code) 
Recording: 
20. If approved, applicant submits final documents for recordation, the appropriate recording fees, 
and any payments, sureties or dedications required by the Development or Annexation 
Agreement. 
21. Town staff creates the water bank. 
22. Town staff files the original executed annexation ordinance and annexation map with the 
Douglas County Clerk and Recorder. 
23. Douglas County staff files a copy of the annexation ordinance and annexation map with the 
State Department of Local Affairs, in the Division of Local Government and with the State 
Department of Revenue. 
Zoning/Rezoning 
The Town has residential, business and industrial “straight” zone districts that allow appropriate land 
uses either by right or as a Use by Special Review.  (For the Commercial Land Use Matrix (see Section 
17.28.030) Requests for zoning changes can be submitted by petition of the property owner(s) or can 
be initiated by the Town.  Please contact the Development Services Department regarding proposed 
zone changes. 
At the time of annexation, a property owner can choose to request that their property be zoned to 
either one of the Towns' straight zone districts or a Planned Development.  The application can be 
processed simultaneously with an annexation request, or within ninety (90) days of annexation. 
Submittal Requirements for Zoning/Rezoning for straight zone district: 
◦
Title commitment, current within 180 days 
◦
Application and Review Fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule 
◦
A legal description of the area proposed to be rezoned. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
