Updated:  May 21, 2015 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section VIII – Plats/Easements/Right-of-Way 
Plat/Amended Plat 
Subdivision platting is the process of creating legally described lots that can then be sold to separate 
property owners. See Plat Procedures and Administration (Chapter 16.04).  The final product resulting 
from this process is a subdivision “plat”, which is signed by all owners and mortgagees, the Town official, 
and then recorded at the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder’s office.  Lots cannot be conveyed to 
another party until the plat is recorded.  Please contact the Development Services Department for 
platting, easement, and right of way vacation applications. 
A site is eligible for platting if it has an approved Planned Development Plan or Preliminary Planned 
Development (which are recognized as being equivalent). For properties zoned for commercial, 
industrial and mixed-use development, subdivision platting can either occur prior to or after a Site 
Development Plan for either an individual lot or assemblage of lots is approved.  Properties zoned for 
residential development must have an approved Site Development Plan prior to subdivision platting. 
A subdivision plat depicts the boundary of a subdivision through legal description and reference to the 
Section, Township and Range. The plat shows configuration of blocks, lots, streets and tracts; the plat 
also dedicates public right-of-way, easements and land dedications.  (Note: Amendments to a previously 
approved Preliminary Plat are processed as a Site Development Plan Amendment.) The plat or amended 
plat are reviewed and approved administratively.  Signed mylars are recorded at the Douglas County 
Clerk and Recorder’s office and lots are then reflected in the County Assessor’s records. 
A plat or amended plat may be required to be accompanied by an Improvement Agreement to 
guarantee the completion of public infrastructure improvements (Section 15.50.030).  An Improvement 
Agreement is a legally binding contract between the land owner(s) and the Town which generally 
establishes the land owner’s commitments to provide public improvements for the plat (see 
Improvement Agreement template). The Improvement Agreement is recorded at the Douglas County 
Clerk and Recorder’s office and the requirements of the Improvement Agreement pass to any 
subsequent land owners. 
Submittal Requirements for Plat/Amended Plat: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Title commitment, current within 180 days 
o Plat 
o Closure calculations for plat 
o A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) application for any proposed modifications to the FEMA 
designated one-hundred-year floodplain. 
o Construction plans and cost estimate for all public improvements, including plan review fees 
(See Construction Documents) 
o Updated Traffic Impact Analysis (unnecessary if analysis was submitted/approved previously 
with site plan) 
o Phase III Drainage Report (with Construction Document submittal) 
o Final Utility Report (with Construction Document submittal) 
o Applicant suggested Subdivision Improvement Agreement (SIA) provisions (if applicable) 
