Updated:  May 21, 2015 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter VII – Historic Preservation 
The Town has a Historic Preservation Plan and Ordinance, which requires review and approval of 
building and façade changes within the historic Downtown and Craig and Gould area.  Property owners 
can opt to apply for landmark designation if the building has historical significance and integrity as 
assessed by a property survey.  Landmarking can make the property eligible for local and state historic 
preservation grants.  Please contact the Development Services Department regarding all Historic 
Preservation questions and applications. 
Landmark Designation or Amendment 
Town Council may designate as a landmark an individual structure or an integrated group of structures 
and features on a single lot or site having special historical or architectural value (Section 15.64.080).  A 
property owner desiring to obtain landmark designation may file a nomination application with the 
Development Services Department. 
Submittal Requirements for Landmark Designation or Amendment: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Justification that landmark meets historic significance and integrity criteria for designation 
o Current photographs of proposed landmark 
o Cultural resource survey (may be provided by Town of Castle Rock) (see Section 15.64.080 D). 
Review Process for Landmark Designation or Amendment: 
1. Applicant submits landmark nomination package and fee 
2. Staff reviews cultural resource survey and application for conformance with landmark criteria. 
3. The applicant must comply with the public hearing notice requirements in Section 15.64.080 E. 
4. Historic Preservation Board recommendation based on criteria in Section 15.64.080 C. 
5. Town Council approval or denial in a public hearing, following proper notice (see Section 
15.64.08 0 F). 
Recording: 
6. The Town will record with the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder, the Council’s designating 
Ordinance together with a summary of penalties and sanctions for violating the landmarking 
provisions (Section 15.64.080 G). 
Removal of Landmark Designation 
A property owner may request removal of landmark status on a property, and Town Council will make a 
determination on the request (Section 15.64.100). 
Submittal Requirements for Removal of Landmark Designation: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Justification that landmark no longer meets historic significance and integrity criteria and that 
removing landmark status will have a positive effect on adjacent properties 
o Current photographs of property 
o Cultural resource survey (may be provided by Town) 
