Updated:  May 21, 2015 
39 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Extension of Construction and GESC Document Approval 
Construction Documents and GESC Documents are valid for 1 year from date of Town Approval, if 
construction has not commenced. Applicant may request up to two one (1)-year extensions. It is the 
Applicant’s responsibility to track their expiration date and apply for an extension 30 days before they 
expire. If plans expire before the applicant applies for and obtains their construction permit, then will 
have to reapply for the Construction Document Review. 
Submittal Requirement for Construction and GESC Document Approval Extensions: 
o Application 
o Extension fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
Review Process for Construction and GESC Document Approval Extension: 
1. Determine eligibility; site is eligible for this application if it has: 
a. An approved set of Construction and GESC Documents that have not yet expired, and 
have not received 2 previous extensions. 
2. Absent special circumstances, extensions will be granted with no review of the construction or 
GESC plans. However, if it is found that any federal, state or county requirements related to 
health, safety and welfare in effect at the time of application for a construction plan extension 
as well as Town provisions related to lot-to-lot drainage and water meter locations have not 
been incorporated into the plans, the applicant will be required to submit modified plans that 
incorporate such changes as a condition of obtaining Construction or GESC plan extension. 
3. If the extension is granted, the application will be signed with “Town Approval” and the 
expiration date will be extended out to the new expiration date in the Town’s electronic 
database. 
Expired Construction Documents 
Construction Documents and GESC that have expired and were not extended under the extension 
provisions listed above, will need to be resubmitted to the Town, with all current submittal 
requirements and fees, to undergo a new review. Applicants should follow the regular submittal 
processes outlined under the Construction Document Review and GESC Document Review sections 
listed in this Procedure Manual. 
Minor and Major Field Change Orders 
After Construction and GESC Document approvals, sometimes an applicant desires to request a 
modification to the approved plans. Some of these requested changes may be due to a change in the 
proposed phase plan for the area or may be due to site conditions or conflicts once the site is under 
construction. These requests are processed as either a Minor or Major Field Change Order (FCO). 
Inspector Field Approval: 
During construction, the following activities do not need a Field Change Order, but can instead be 
approved in the field by the Town Inspector and can be marked up on the Record Drawings for the site: 
•
Minor plant species changes that do not affect the overall site design or irrigation design. If 
specific plant species where approved in a Public Hearing as part of an Interface application, 
then this change may need a Minor Field Change Order approval and/or a revised Site 
