 
43 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
Town in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, cash, or placed in a Town approved escrow account. 
Bonds are not accepted for a Warranty Surety.  If the Developer fails to complete the required warranty 
work within a timely manner after being notified by the Town, then the Town has the right to use the 
warranty funds to complete the warranty work in accordance with Section 15.56.030 of the Municipal 
Code. 
The Construction Warranty Surety may be reduced to 10% if the following conditions are met: 
 Developer requests an inspection of the project no earlier than ten (10) months into the 
warranty period; 
 This inspection results in a written Punch List of defective items where the cost of the defective 
work identified is equal to 5% or less of the actual construction costs identified in the Public 
Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance form 
The Warranty surety may not be reduced to less than 10% of the actual construction costs identified in 
the Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance form.  The Warranty Surety will be held for 
a minimum of the 2 year warranty period, and will not be released until all of the Warranty work has 
been completed. 
GESC Surety: 
Land disturbing activity that requires a GESC permit and involves seeding and mulching will require that 
a GESC Surety be provided to the Town prior to issuance of the GESC Permit.  As part of the GESC 
Document review, the project will have a Town Approved GESC Cost Estimate.  The GESC Surety amount 
due is equal to 115% of this Town Approved Cost Estimate. This GESC surety can be provided to the 
Town as a Bond, Irrevocable Letter of Credit, cash/check or placed in a Town approved escrow account. 
The GESC Surety amount does not change from the 115%, and will be in place until the GESC permit is 
closed out.  Typically it takes two growing seasons for vegetation to establish, and this is normally the 
earliest a GESC surety can be released. If the seed does not establish, then the GESC surety expiration 
date will need to be extended until the area has been vegetated in accordance with the Town’s GESC 
requirements. 
Low Impact GESC Permits that do not require native seeding or re-vegetation will not require a GESC 
surety. 
Construction and GESC Permit 
Construction and GESC Permits are often issued at the same time for a site construction project. There 
is rarely a case that a Construction Permit can be issued without a GESC permit also being issued, or 
already being in place.  The Construction Permit covers the permanent changes that are proposed to be 
built, such as the utility and roadway infrastructure; while the GESC permit covers the erosion and 
sediment control work that is needed while the site is under active construction, such as vehicle tracking 
control, silt fence, inlet protection, and seeding of disturbed areas.  Each permit has a separate permit 
form, a different inspector, and different permit fees, use taxes, and surety requirements. However, the 
two permits are almost always issued at the same time, so they are both discussed in this section. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
