Updated:  May 21, 2015 
16 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter IV – Annexation/Zoning 
Annexation 
Annexation petitions are required by property owners seeking incorporation into the Town’s 
jurisdictional boundaries and provision of Town services (see Chapter 20.02).  Please direct questions 
regarding annexation to the Development Services Department. Annexations must be consistent with 
the Douglas County-Town of Castle Rock Intergovernmental Agreement, the Town’s Comprehensive 
Master Plan, and other Master Plans. Annexations must comply with the water dedication provision in 
the Chapter 4.04 of the Municipal Code.  Please direct questions regarding water adjudication and 
dedication to the Development Services Department. 
Zoning to either a straight-zone district or Planned Development Plan must occur either simultaneously 
with annexation or within 90 days following annexation approval. If zoning to a Planned Development 
Plan does not occur in conjunction with annexation, an Annexation Agreement may be required to 
guarantee that impacts of the annexation to Town services will be accommodated. 
Submittal Requirements for Annexation: (see Annexation checklist) 
o Annexation Petition 
o Application and Fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Title commitment, current within 180 days 
o Water rights decree (or) application for same 
o 4 copies of the Annexation Map (prepared by Professional Land Surveyor, registered in the State 
of Colorado) 
o Annexation closure calculations 
o Annexation impact report (annexation > 10 acres) 
o Proposed Development / Annexation Agreement provisions 
o Traffic Impact Analysis (may be required) 
Review Process for Annexation: 
Substantial Compliance: 
Eligibility: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Neighborhood Meeting (recommended). 
3. Applicant submits application materials and fees. 
4. Town staff schedules a Substantial Compliance hearing. 
5. If the Petition is found to be in substantial compliance, Town Council sets a date by resolution 
for the Eligibility public hearing to be held not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the 
date of the resolution setting the hearing. 
6. Town staff publishes notice for four consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation, at 
least 30 days prior to the date of the Eligibility hearing. 
7. Town staff sends a copy of the published notice, resolution of substantial compliance and 
annexation petition to the Board of County Commissioners and County Attorney, to any special 
districts and the school district by registered mail at least 25 days prior to the date of the 
Eligibility hearing. 
8. The Eligibility hearing is held and the Town Council makes a finding of fact by resolution whether 
the area proposed for annexation is eligible for annexation. 
9. Town staff sends a copy of the Annexation Impact Report, if required, to the Board of County 
Commissioners within five days following the Eligibility hearing. 
