Updated:  May 21, 2015 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter II- Notice 
Neighborhood Meetings (recommended) 
Developers are encouraged to hold neighborhood meetings in advance of submitting a formal 
development application.  Town staff must review the notice letter, including a vicinity map, in advance 
of mailing. Notice of the neighborhood meeting should be sent by US mail to property owners within 
the adjacent neighborhoods. Notice should also be emailed or mailed to the HOA president for those 
neighborhoods. Ideally, the neighborhood meeting should be held on a weekday evening and in a 
location that is convenient for residents in the area to attend. 
External Referrals 
The Town staff sends out external referrals to outside agencies, jurisdictions, and utilities to solicit input 
on the application.  The referral period is generally 30 days and is timed to coincide with the first staff 
review so as to not slow down the review process.  The comments received as a result of the external 
referrals will be forwarded to the applicant for consideration of plan/report revisions. The Town staff 
may forward comments received from external referrals to the Planning Commission and Town Council 
as part of the public hearing process. 
Public Notice 
Prior to public hearings, land use applications require the applicant to provide mailed notice to property 
owners within a minimum of 300 ft. and posting of a sign along the public streets adjacent to the subject 
property. The Town also provides notice of public hearings on the Town’s web site. The Town may 
initiate community outreach in an effort to expand notification concerning an application or public 
hearing beyond the minimum requirements set forth in the Municipal Code.  Published notice in the 
newspaper is required for annexations per State law requirements.  Per State law, notice to subsurface 
mineral rights owners is required 30 days prior to the initial public hearing with Zoning, Planned 
Development Plans, Site Development Plans and Plats. Plat applications are approved administratively 
and for this reason, require notice to adjacent property owners at the time of application. All 
development projects are also identified on the “In Your Backyard” page of the website. 
Public Notice Requirements 
A. 
Upon determination of a completed submission of a development application, the types of 
required notice shall conform to the Public Notice Matrix in the Town of Castle Rock 
Development Procedures Manual, including: notice by publication in a newspaper of general 
circulation in the Town of Castle Rock; notice by mail to surrounding property owners; notice by 
posting a sign on the property; and/or notice by website publication on the Town of Castle Rock 
website. When public notice is required, such notice shall include: 
1. 
The name of the applicant and/or the property owner; 
2. 
A general description of the location of the proposed development or action; 
