Updated:  May 21, 2015 
52 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
4. 2nd review; design professionals responses are checked for adequacy. If responses are not 
adequate, comments are returned. If responses are deemed sufficient, reviews and revisions 
are completed and sent onto the Permit Technician for permit issuance. 
Building Permit Issuance (pay permit, use tax and impact fees): 
1. Once the review is complete, the file is returned to the counter staff for fee calculation. Fees 
will be calculated, usually based on a valuation from square footage.  (see Development Services 
Fee Schedule) 
2. Once the fees have been calculated, the applicant is notified of the fee amount. 
3. Staff will confirm contractor registration, including current license, insurance and applicable 
fees. 
4. Before the building permit is released all documents will be verified. 
5. Once the fees have been calculated, the applicant is notified of the fee amount. 
Inspections 
Scheduling: 
Inspections can be scheduled via Phone (303-660-1341), Fax (720-733-2207), walk-in (at the counter), or 
through E-Trakit: 

Via Phone (303-660-1341), Fax (720-733-2207) or Walk-in: until 3:30 p.m., inspections will be 
scheduled for the following business day; after 3:30 p.m., inspections will not be scheduled until 
the following business day. 

Via E-Trakit:  inspections scheduled using the Town’s software can be scheduled until 6:00 a.m. 
on the requested day of the inspection. 
Building Inspection Process: 
The Town of Castle Rock employs fully certified Combination Residential Building Inspectors. All rough 
and final residential inspections are to be scheduled and ready for inspection when either all the rough 
in or final work is complete and ready for inspection, i.e., framing, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical. 
There are several inspections that can be scheduled independently such as underground plumbing and 
caissons.  These inspections are primarily for items that are required to be approved and covered up 
prior to the construction of structural members or partition walls. 
(Note:  All job sites for either residential or commercial projects are expected to be maintained to provide 
a safe working environment for the workers and the Town’s inspectors. If the site is unsafe, the 
inspection will be rescheduled.) 
Commercial inspections can be scheduled on an as needed basis and all disciplines do not have to be 
ready for inspection at one time. With the size and complexity of commercial projects partial inspections 
are acceptable and considered as a normal standard operating procedure. 
Re-Inspection Fees; a $65.00 dollar fee can be assessed if the following conditions apply: 
 The scheduled inspection is clearly not ready. 
 Upon re-inspection there has been no attempt to correct issues noted by the inspector on the 
previous inspection. 
