 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
the required contents of the GESC plans, cost estimate and GESC report, please refer to the Town 
Grading Erosion and Sediment Control (GESC) and Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control (DESC) 
Manual. 
Submittal Requirement for GESC Documents: 
o Application 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval from 
the land owner is required. 
o Review fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Submittal Checklist, completed by applicant 
o GESC Plans containing the initial, interim and final GESC plans for the site, including 
Town GESC Standard Notes and Details. Cut/fill quantities need to be indicated as well. 
o GESC Report, including GESC Cost Estimate, GESC Drawing and Report Checklist, and an 
11x17 set of the GESC plans bound in the rear of the report. 
o GESC Cost Estimate, using Town standard template 
o Haul Route – if any material is going to be exported or imported to the site, a Haul 
Route map needs to be provided for Town Approval.  Any import or export sites located 
within the Town of Castle Rock jurisdiction will require a GESC permit as well, unless the 
site already has an active permit (this site plan and permit may need to be updated). 
o Technical Criteria Variance – If you are proposing any variations from the Technical 
design criteria in the GESC/DESC Manual, please submit the appropriate supporting 
information on the Technical Criteria Variance form with the submission of your GESC 
plans 
Review Process for GESC Documents: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Applicant submits GESC Documents and fees 
3. Staff reviews submittal package documents and issues comments and redlines 
4. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times) 
5. Staff issues approval or denial 
Approval: 
6. If GESC Documents are approved, then the plan set, cost estimate, and GESC report can be 
prepared, signed by the Professional Engineer and owner, and submitted to the Town for 
approval signatures. 
7. Applicant will need to pick up Town Approved documents; scan all items; and return, one set of 
11x17 sized plans, and electronic copies of each item prior to being able to obtain a GESC 
Permit. 
8. Once GESC Documents are approved, and all required documents are submitted to the Town, 
the applicant can apply for their GESC Permit. A GESC permit is required before any land 
disturbing activities can begin; this includes non-residential building construction activities. 
9. GESC Approval is valid for 1 year from date of Town Approval if construction has not 
commenced.  Applicant may request up to two one (1)-year extensions.  It is the Applicant’s 
responsibility to track their expiration date and apply for an extension 30 days before they 
expire. If plans expire before the applicant applies for and obtains their construction permit, 
then will have to reapply for the GESC Document Review. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
