 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review Process for Removal of Landmark Designation: 
1. Applicant submits landmark designation removal package and fee. 
2. Staff reviews cultural resource survey and application for conformance with criteria in Section 
15.64.100 B. 
3. Historic Preservation Board recommendation following public notice. 
4. Town Council approval or denial in a public hearing. 
Landmark Alteration 
All new construction and exterior alterations that change the visual appearance of a landmarked 
structure must be approved by the Historic Preservation Board except for minor alterations to a single 
feature that do not dramatically alter the appearance of the structure, which can be approved 
administratively (Section 15.64.140).  The intent of the architectural drawings is to depict the proposed 
changes for the benefit of the public and the Historic Preservation Board at public hearings. The details 
of construction occur at the building phase, which is an administrative process. 
Submittal Requirements for Landmark Alteration: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Architectural drawings showing property lines, setbacks, location of additions, building 
elevations, materials and colors (site plan may be required) 
o Justification that alterations meet the Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, will 
not destroy character-defining features of the structure, are not incompatible with the character 
of the landmark and will not change an integral part of the structure recognized at the time of 
landmark designation 
o Current photographs of property 
Review Process for Landmark Alteration: 
1. Applicant submits landmark alteration package and fee. 
2. Staff reviews architectural drawings (and site plan, if required) for conformance with criteria in 
Section 15.64.140 C. 
3. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
4. Historic Preservation Board approval in public hearing or administrative approval for minor 
alterations (Section 15.64.140 D). 
5. Staff denial may be appealed to the Historic Preservation Board, and Board denial may be 
appealed to Town Council (Section 15.64.140 F). 
Demolition or Relocation of Non-Landmarked Structures 
If a structure was built after 1945, or is determined by a historical survey to not possess enough 
historical significance and/or integrity for landmark designation, a demolition or relocation permit may 
be obtained through the Development Services Department (Section 15.64.090).  If a structure was built 
prior to 1945 in Downtown or the Craig and Gould neighborhood, Town Council approval is required for 
demolition or relocation. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
