Updated:  May 21, 2015 
36 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
such as not having too many homes on a dead-end road without residential sprinklers being installed. 
Town Staff will provide phasing comments during the review of the CDs. 
In some cases, an applicant may choose to request a Construction Permit for grading activities, ahead of 
the full site construction permit.  The requirements for this scope of work would follow the regular CD 
process listed below, however the plan set and cost estimate would only address the proposed grading 
activities. Final Utility Reports and Phase III Drainage studies would not be required until the full site 
construction plans were submitted. Grading activities also require a regular Grading, Erosion, and 
Sediment Control (GESC) document review and permit, as listed in following sections. 
Construction Documents (CDs) Review 
The following items are needed for a complete submittal of the Construction Documents (CDs) and must 
be prepared by a Colorado licensed Professional Engineer. For details on the required contents of the 
construction plans or supporting technical reports, please refer to the detailed checklists and the design 
criteria in the applicable Technical Manual. (Note:  Grading, Erosion, and Sediment Control (GESC) plan 
review is also required and the GESC permit needs to be applied for with or ahead of the Construction 
Permit.)  See the following section for the GESC review information. 
Submittal Requirement for CDs: 
 Describe compliance or variations from approved Site Development Plan (SDP), 
or previously approved Final PD Site Plan (FPD). 
 Clearly identify any areas that vary from the approved Site Development Plan, 
the causes for the variation and how the variations impact surrounding 
properties, 
 Describe compliance with Technical Manuals and list any proposed technical 
criteria variances, 
o Application 
o Review fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Submittal Checklist, completed by applicant 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval from 
the land owner is required. 
o Project narrative/letter 
o Construction Plans containing the site design details, including the overall site plan; 
applicable phase plans; roadway plan/profile; utility plan/profiles; stormwater facility 
plan/profiles; grading plan; signage, striping and lighting plans; final landscape and 
irrigation plans; and all applicable construction details and notes. 
o Updated Traffic Impact Analysis (if needed) 
o Phase III Drainage Report 
o Final Utility Report 
o Engineer’s Cost Estimate, using Town standard template 
o Technical Criteria Variance requests – If applicant is proposing any deviations from the 
Technical design criteria in the Technical Manuals. Submit the appropriate supporting 
information and  Technical Criteria Variance form with the submission of your CDs 
o Checklists used for Plan preparation and all reports 
o Easement legal descriptions and exhibits – if the proposed project requires any new 
easements that were not addressed on the final plat, please submit the legal 
descriptions and exhibits as soon as the location of the easement is confirmed with the 
review of the CDs. Easements are typically needed for utility main lines, drainage 
features, sight distance lines, and sidewalk that may be on private land. 
