Updated:  May 21, 2015 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
charge this expense to the Developer or may issue a Stop Work Order, as specified in Section 15.54.070 
of the Municipal Code. 
If work has been completed without proper Inspections and approval by Town Inspector, the Developer 
shall supply all labor, equipment and materials to complete the required inspections, including removal 
of completed Work to allow for necessary inspection. If such Work is found to be defective in any 
material or workmanship, the Developer shall remedy the Work to be in compliance with the approved 
Construction Documents and the Town’s criteria at the developer’s expense. 
If the Inspector identifies any neglects or disregard of the approved Construction Documents or the 
Town Criteria, such neglect or disregard shall be immediately remedied and any defective Work shall be 
discontinued at once. If Developer does not proceed with corrective work in the timeframe specified by 
the inspector a Stop Work Order may be issued. 
The observation of the work by the Inspector is intended to aid the Developer in applying labor, 
materials, and workmanship in compliance with the approved Construction Documents and the Town 
Criteria. Such inspection and observations, however, shall not relieve the Developer from any 
obligations related to the requirements of the approved Construction Documents or any Town Criteria. 
Responsibility for damage from or replacement of work not in compliance with the terms of the 
Improvement Agreement, approved Construction Documents or Town Criteria, shall rest entirely with 
the Developer for the full period of construction or Warranty Period, regardless of whether or not the 
Developer had been previously advised of any said non-compliance. 
If changes to the approved Construction Plans are required during construction, a Field Change Order 
shall be submitted for Town Approval prior to construction of the proposed modification. 
Work Schedule 
Public Improvement and site Construction Work related to permitted Projects is allowed Monday 
through Friday, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and on Saturdays, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with specific approval by the 
Town, irrespective of Chapter 9.16, CRMC. Normal workday inspection hours are 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, and shall be scheduled through the Inspector. All required inspections that are 
scheduled on Saturdays shall be billed at a rate of 1.5 times the normal assigned rate for an Inspector. 
No work shall be permitted on Sundays or holidays without written approval from the Town Manager. 
Work or inspection requests beyond normal working hours or on holidays must be submitted to the 
Town a minimum five (5) working days prior to the requested date. If an emergency situation occurs on 
a Project, the Public Works Department shall be notified immediately. The Developer may be required 
to pay for Town staff time for emergencies, if they occur outside of normal work hours. 
Enforcement/Stop Work Order 
A Stop Work Order may be issued by an Inspector or other designated Town Official in accordance with 
Section 15.54.070 or the GESC Manual for items such as failure to obtain a permit, failure to remedy or 
correct improper work, or if the project is deemed an obvious public health or safety problem.  Work 
may not commence until the issues have been resolved and the Developer/Contractor is notified that 
they may proceed. 
