Updated:  May 21, 2015 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review Process for Plat: 
1. Applicant submits plat application and fees 
2. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and utilities 
3. Staff reviews submittal documents and the Development Agreement for the property (if 
applicable) and issues comments and redlines, including any external comments that may be 
received. Staff also issues a draft of the Improvement Agreement for the applicant to review. 
4. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times) 
5. Staff issues approval or denial. (Note: Staff denials may be appealed to Town Council) 
6. If the Plat is approved, then mylars can be prepared, signed and submitted to the Town for 
recording, along with recording fee check. 
7. Applicant submits signed Improvement Agreement (and any payments that may be due with the 
recording of the plat, either by Improvement Agreement or Development Agreement 
obligations) along with recording fees. 
Recording 
8. Town records Plat, SIA, and water rights deed (if applicable) at the Douglas County Clerk and 
Recorder. 
9. Following plat recordation, the site is eligible for Site Development Plan. If the Site 
Development Plan is already approved, the applicant can proceed with Construction/GESC 
Drawings, Construction/GESC Permits and Building Permits. 
10. Plats must be recorded within 180 days of staff approval, unless a one-time extension is applied 
for and approved. 
Addressing 
Proposed street names and addresses must be submitted to Development Services for review and 
approval.  Street names and address must comply with the Town of Castle Rock-Policy for Street Naming 
and Property Addressing as well as the Douglas County Addressing and Street Naming Manual.  The 
Town will refer the proposed addressing scheme to the Town and County GIS Divisions, as well as 
Emergency Service providers for input during the review process. Final street and address assignments 
will be made at the time of plat recordation. 
Plat Modification 
Plat modification means the consolidation of two or more lots for purposes of creating a single 
development lot, where all individual lots are held in common ownership; a minor adjustment or 
elimination of a lot line; or changes due to minor errors or omissions. A plat modification is processed 
administratively by staff and generally does not require an Improvement Agreement, Construction 
Drawings, or technical reports. 
Submittal Requirements for Plat Modifications: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Ownership and Encumbrance Report, current within 180 days 
o Plat Modification Form 
Review Process for Plat: 
1. Applicant submits plat modification application and fees 
