 
19 
 
 
o 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
s 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o Concept Utility Letter 
Phase I Drainage Report 
o Proposed Development Agreement provisions (if no Annexation Agreement or if submitted 
concurrently with Annexation) 
Review Process for Planned Development Plans: 
Recording: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Neighborhood Meeting (recommended). 
3. Applicant submits application materials and fees. 
4. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and dry 
utilities. 
5. Staff reviews application documents and issues response comments and redlines. 
6. Applicant revises and resubmits one or two times. 
7. Staff schedules public hearings and prepares staff report including a recommendation regarding 
the Planned Development Plan.  Public notice (Section 17.04.050) is required prior to hearings. 
8. Planning Commission reviews in a public hearing and makes a recommendation to Town 
Council, based on PD Plan review criteria (Section 17.34.030). 
9. Town Council reviews in a public hearing and makes the final determination. 
10. If approved, applicant submits final documents and fees for recordation with 
money/sureties/dedications required by the Development or Annexation Agreement. The 
applicant has 180 days from approval date to submit mylars to the Town for recording. 
11. The Town records the Planned Development Plan with the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder. 
12. The Town creates the water bank. 
Amendment to Planned Development Plan or PD Zoning Regulations 
Staff can approve Minor Amendments administratively. A Major Amendment to a Planned 
Development (or former Preliminary Planned Development PPD) is required to go back through public 
hearings for review and approval.  Any one or more of the following thresholds constitute a Major 
Amendment (Section 17.36.010): 

Introduces new land uses 

Changes area devoted to any use by more than 10% 

Changes density or intensity of uses by more than 10% 

Constitutes a significant change in the design 

Creates new or additional impacts on adjacent propertie 

Substantively changes the PD Zoning Regulations 
Review Process for Amended Planned Development Plans: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Neighborhood Meeting (recommended). 
3. Applicant submits application materials and fees. 
4. If determined to be necessary by staff, the Town will send out external referrals to appropriate 
jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and dry utilities. 
5. Staff will review of submittal package documents and issues response comments and redlines. 
6. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
