 
6 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
applicant’s team, the staff review team, and management team.  The Project Manager is responsible for 
ensuring submissions are complete and, plan sets and reports are routed to the appropriate technical 
review staff. Review comments are organized and communicated to the applicant’s team within the 
outlined review timeframes. 
Development Application and Construction Plan Review Process 
The Administrative (staff) component of the development review process typically consists of: 
1. Pre-submittal meeting 
2. Submittal meeting and application completeness check 
3. Review of the plan sets and reports 
4. Comments provided to applicant 
5. Applicant makes necessary revisions 
6. Re-submittals and reviews (as necessary) until the plan sets and reports meet the codes 
If the application requires public hearings, the hearings are scheduled after the administrative review of 
the application is completed. Appropriate notice must be provided to adjacent property owners and the 
public. 
Pre-submittal/Submittal:  The pre-submittal meeting with the Project Manager is an important step to 
review the applicable procedures, submittal requirements and anticipated timeframes specific for the 
proposed project.  The Project Manager will provide the applicant with a detailed submittal checklist 
and formatting requirements related to their project for use in preparing the application. At the 
submittal meeting, the Project Manager reviews the submitted items against this same checklist to 
ensure that all items are completed, and then reviews the project timeframes and date that comments 
will be returned to the applicant. All applications will be submitted with one hard-copy of each item, 
along with one electronic copy (.pdf recommended) of the application materials. 
Review Timeframes: The Development Services Department has target review timeframes as described 
below: 

For planned developments, larger site development plans, and infrastructure construction 
documents, the review process includes: first review of 5 ½ weeks, second review of 3 ½ weeks, 
and a third and final review typically occurs at the weekly TRC meeting with immediate action. 
This equates to a total of 10 weeks in staff hands. 

For smaller projects and site development plans, the review process includes: first review of 3 ½ 
weeks, second review 2 ½ weeks, and a third and final review to occur at the weekly TRC 
meeting with immediate action. This equates to a total of 7 weeks in staff hands. 
Review/Comments:  For the review, the Project Manager routes the application materials to the internal 
Town reviewers in various departments, such as Planning, Utilities, Parks, Public Works, Fire, and 
Building. Some applications are also routed to applicable external review agencies, such as Douglas 
County, Colorado Dept. of Transportation (CDOT), and utility providers. The Project Manager compiles 
all of the various comments, and provides these to the applicant in an electronic format.  Town 
comments are referred to as “redlines” as they typically consist of red text boxes of comments directly 
on the plan set, report or other submitted item. In addition, some comments may be provided in a 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
