 
5 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
this Development Procedures Manual, related submittal checklists, applications, permits, and handouts 
for the effective administration of development and construction matters. 
The Development Procedures Manual works in conjunction with the Municipal Code and covers all 
aspects of development planning, design and construction.  The “legislative-public hearing” process 
includes annexation, zoning and development plans that are reviewed by the Planning Commission and 
approved by Town Council.  The “administrative-staff approval” process includes platting, easement and 
land dedication, as well as commercial development plan review for properties that are not adjacent to 
residential properties, are 10 acres in size or less, and have a proposed building area that is 100,000 sq. 
ft. or less. 
Public and private infrastructure requires approval of engineered Construction Documents and 
associated reports. This Manual explains the infrastructure plan review, permitting, inspection, 
acceptance, and warranty processes as well as the grading, erosion, and sediment control (GESC) 
permitting process. Finally, this Manual explains the Building and Fire plan review, permitting, and 
inspection process as well as Sign and Temporary Use permits. 
The codes and standards are intended to be comprehensive and user-friendly.  The Municipal Code 
outlines provisions that must be codified, while the Development Procedures Manual is a process guide 
for property owners, applicants, consultants and contractors. The Technical Manuals provide detailed 
engineering and landscape design requirements and specifications. The Technical Manuals are 
intentionally broken out by subject areas so that design professionals can focus on their specific area. 
Technical Manuals and Regulations 
The technical design specifications contained in the Technical Manuals are adopted by reference in Title 
15 of the Municipal Code and include: 
•
Landscaping and Irrigation Performance Standards and Criteria Manual 
•
Transportation Design Criteria Manual 
•
Water System Design Criteria Manual 
•
Wastewater Collection System Design Criteria Manual 
•
Storm Drainage Design and Technical Criteria Manual 
•
Grading, Erosion and Sediment Control (GESC & DESC) Manual 
•
Construction Methodology and Materials Manual 
•
International Building and Fire Codes (adopted by reference in Title 15) 
The Technical Manuals govern over all Public and Private Improvements that are within, or are to be 
incorporated within, the corporate limits of the Town of Castle Rock, as well as any Public Improvements 
that may be outside of the Town's corporate limits but are integral to the planned infrastructure 
systems of the Town. These Manuals will be reviewed annually and updated accordingly based on new 
standards, technology, or procedural changes. 
Project Manager Role 
The Town of Castle Rock employs a Project Manager model. The submission procedures, and review 
timeframes expedite efficient reviews of plan sets and reports, providing consistency and predictability 
to the property owner/applicant. The Project Manager’s role is to ensure communication between the 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
