Updated:  May 21, 2015 
44 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The Construction Permit and GESC Permits can be applied for once the project site has Approved 
Construction and GESC Documents on file with the Town, which have not expired. The Developer and 
their contractor will fill out and sign the construction permit and GESC permit forms and submit them to 
the Project Manager at the Town. The Project Manager will use the Town Approved Engineer’s Cost 
Estimates for the Project, or Phase of the Project that is being permitted, to calculate the Permit Fees, 
Use Taxes, construction Performance Surety and GESC Surety that is due.  The Construction Permit and 
GESC Permit will be issued at the same time, unless the site already has an active GESC permit in place. 
In some situations, the Developer can request to have the GESC permit issued in advance of the 
Construction Permit.  However, the Construction Permit cannot be issued ahead of the GESC permit. 
Use Taxes are required to be paid in accordance with Title 3, Article III of the Municipal Code. For a site 
construction permit, Use tax is calculated as one-half of the total site valuation (except for earthwork) 
and multiplied by 5%. Use Tax is not applied to the GESC permit, as these items are temporary in nature 
and not considered “building materials”. 
If the Developer wants to only construct a portion of the project area in the Approved Construction 
Documents and does not have a current phase plan and phased Cost Estimate, then they will need to 
apply for a Field Change Order to create or revise the Phasing Plan and Engineer’s Cost Estimate.  Once 
this Field Change Order is approved, then they can apply for the Construction and GESC permits specific 
to the phase they would like to construct. 
The Developer is responsible to obtain all permits that may be necessary to conduct the work, including 
any other Local, State or Federal permits, licenses, etc. and shall be responsible to follow any State or 
Federal regulation, which may not otherwise be designated on the Plans or mentioned in Town 
Regulations.  It is the Developer’s responsibility to obtain any necessary surveys, easements, and 
permits, related to the project, including any survey work to establish property lines or to resolve a 
property line dispute. The Developer shall give all notices, pay all fees, and comply with all Federal, 
State and Municipal laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and building and construction codes to 
applicable to the permitted work. In addition, they are responsible for obtaining all utility locates. 
Submittal Requirement for Construction Permit: 
o Permit Form, completed and signed by Developer and Contractor 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval or 
construction easement from the land owner is required 
o Permit fee (inspection fee and use tax) (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Approved Haul Route (if needed) 
o Street Lane Closure Application and Traffic Control Plan (if needed). A Traffic Control 
Plan (TCP) shall meet the requirements of Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices 
(MUTCD), latest revision, and shall be prepared by a certified ATSSA Traffic technician or 
a licensed Professional Engineer qualified in Traffic/Transportation Engineering.  The 
Town may waive this requirement if the Project is deemed minor or does not require a 
traffic control plan. 
o If the project proposes new public roadways, a Pavement Design report and review fee 
is required prior to approval of paving activities. 
o Performance Surety with Town Approved language 
o Two sets of 11 x 17 size of the Town Approved Construction Drawings, if not already 
provided 
