 
27 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
nt 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the provisions of the technical manuals are considered on a case-by-case basis for specific applications 
only, and shall not establish a precedent for any other project or future development.  Please contact 
the Development Services Department for technical criteria variance questions and applications. 
Typically, a technical criteria variance is submitted with a Site Development Plan or Construction 
Documents and is reviewed concurrently. A property owner/applicant may choose to request Town 
Council’s approval of a fundamental design element in conjunction with the Planned Development Plan 
or Site Development Plan; staff will provide an analysis of the requested variance to Council.  If a 
technical variance is denied by the staff, the applicant may choose to appeal an administrative denial to 
the Town Council (Section 17.04.110). 
Submittal Requirements for Technical Criteria Variance: 
o Completed technical criteria variance application form (no fee). 
o Criteria from which the variance is sought. 
o Identification of the alternative design, improvement, or construction technique proposed to be 
used. 
o Supporting documentation including: justification for variance including how the intent of the 
criteria is still being achieved, related calculations, plan sheets, details, exhibits, etc. 
o The variance request shall be signed by the owner, and the engineer or design professional. 
Review Criteria for Technical Criteria Variances (Section 17.32.050 C): 
A technical criteria variance may be approved if one or more of the following criteria are met: 
a. The standards may be met by an alternative method that is demonstrated to have an equivale 
or better function and meet the same objective; 
b. Physical constraints exist, such as steep topography or other natural hazards, which limit the 
ability to install the improvement, would limit healthy plant growth, or could cause safety 
concerns; 
c. Site conditions, including geology, topography, indigenous soils, or issues related to 
environmental impacts or wildlife habitat, may be better addressed through the alternative 
proposal. 
Documentation of a Technical Criteria Variance: 
Technical criteria variances shall be documented on Construction Drawings for construction and 
inspection purposes and on Record Drawings for operational purposes. All variances on a project shall 
be listed on Site Development Plans and Construction Drawings including:  the Variance Number, 
description of the Variance, any conditions of approval, and the approval date. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
