 
21 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
Chapter V – Site Development Plan 
Site Development Plan 
A Site Development Plan depicts the general layout and configuration of a site, including building 
footprints, parking and street layout, conceptual landscaping and lighting, site cross section drawings, 
and building elevations.  Please contact the Development Services Department for Site Development 
Plan questions and applications. The intent of the Site Development Plan is to depict the proposed site 
layout for the benefit of the public, Planning Commission and Town Council at public hearings (for 
Downtown properties at the Design Review Board public hearing). The detail of infrastructure, utility, 
storm drainage engineering, and final landscape and irrigation design is submitted later with the 
Construction Documents, which is an administrative review process. 
For properties zoned for commercial, industrial and mixed-use development, subdivision platting can 
either occur prior to or after a Site Development Plan approval for either an individual lot or assemblage 
of lots.  Properties zoned for residential development must have an approved Site Development Plan 
prior to subdivision platting. A Site Development Plan must be approved prior to the issuance of 
building permits. 
If vesting through the Site Specific Development Plan provisions is requested, then notice must be 
published within 15 days of approval of a site specific development plan (Section 17.08.090). 
Unless they are eligible for administrative approval, Site Development Plans must be reviewed by 
Planning Commission and Town Council in public hearings with final decision resting with Council. 
(Note:  Town Council has the authority to grant technical criteria variances (Section 15.32.040) through 
the approval of a Site Development Plan.) Staff, Planning Commission, and Town Council use the Site 
Development Plan review criteria (Section 17.38.040) in addition to the General Design Principles 
(Chapter 17.10).  A Site Development Plan can be approved administratively by staff if non-residential 
development is proposed and the property is not adjacent to residential (Section 17.50.030), but only if 
the site is less than 10 acres in size and less than 100,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area is proposed. 
Use by Special Review (UBSR) 
For land uses “by special review” in either straight zones or Planned Development, approval of a Use by 
Special Review (UBSR) is required as part of the Site Development Plan. A UBSR is a use allowed only 
after review in a public hearing to ensure that any negative impacts will be properly mitigated and the 
use will not adversely affect other properties, based on the UBSR review criteria (Section 17.38.050), in 
addition to the Site Development Plan review criteria (Section 17.38.040) and the General Design 
Principles (Chapter 17.10).  Land uses that require a Use by Special Review are listed in the applicable 
zoning for the intended use area.  If the area is a Planned Development, please refer to the specific 
zoning language in the approved PD.  “Straight zoned” commercial property follows the Land Uses 
(Section 17.28.030) in the Municipal Code. Use by Special Review must be granted prior to building 
permits and occupancy of the space.  Planning Commission reviews all UBSR applications in a public 
hearing following public notice (Section 17.04.050). The Commission is the final decision maker for 
UBSR’s that only involve tenant finish in a commercial center.  With all other UBSR applications, the 
Commission forwards a recommendation to Town Council who makes the final decision. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
