Updated:  May 21, 2015 
54 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
o Site plan depicting location of existing and proposed structures, dimensioned setbacks, building 
heights, access and parking, lighting, signage. 
Review Process: 
1. Submittal of permit. 
2. Review for zoning compliance. 
3. Permit issued upon payment of fee. 
Sign Permit 
A separate sign permit shall be required for each sign and for each sign of a group on a single supporting 
sign structure.  Sign Permits should be submitted to the Zoning Division in the Development Services 
Department, located at 100 N. Wilcox St. 
Submittal Requirements: 
o 
Complete Sign Permit Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule)
 
o 
A site plan showing all existing and proposed structures with sign locations, access and parking 
o 
Elevation drawings showing the dimensions and materials of the existing and proposed signs, 
including the method of illumination. 
o 
Plans indicating the scope and structural detail of proposed sign construction. 
o 
A statement of current value of proposed sign, including costs of installation. 
o 
Electric signs require an electrical permit application. 
o A right-of-way encroachment permit application, if necessary. 
Review process: 
1. Submittal of Sign Permit Review for sign code regulations in Planned Development or Municipal 
Code. 
2. Review allowable total site sign area allowed based on the greater of: 
a. Allowance per Street Frontage, or 
b. Allowance per Building Frontage 
(Note: Building Frontage is calculated two different ways depending on if the building has a single entry 
or has multiple individual tenant entries.) 
3. Zoning analysis of the existing and proposed signs at the site and a total of their area. 
4. Permit is issued if there is adequate area allowance and permit fees are paid. 
Inspection Process: 
Inspections can be scheduled via Phone (303-660-1341), Fax (720-733-2207), walk-in (at the counter), or 
through E-Trakit: 

Via Phone (303-660-1341), Fax (720-733-2207) or Walk-in: until 3:30 p.m., inspections will be 
scheduled for the following business day; after 3:30 p.m., inspections will not be scheduled until 
the following business day. 

Via E-Trakit:  inspections scheduled using the Town’s software can be scheduled until 6:00 a.m. 
on the requested day of the inspection. 
Temporary Banner Permit 
A temporary banner permit shall be required. Temporary banner permits should be submitted to the 
Zoning Division in the Development Services Department, located at 100 N. Wilcox St. 
