 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submittal Requirements for Demolition or Relocation of Non-Landmarked Structures: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Justification that the structure does not meet the landmark criteria, that its demolition or 
relocation would have a positive effect on adjacent properties, that deterioration of property 
has progressed to the point where it is not economically feasible to rehabilitate the property 
and/or that relocation (rather than demolition) has been investigated 
o Current photographs of property 
o If relocation is proposed, information on plans for property that structure is moved from and 
receiver site 
o Cultural resource survey (may be provided by Town) 
Review Process for Demolition or Relocation of Non-Landmarked Structures: 
15.64.090 B. 
1. Applicant submits demolition or relocation package and fee. 
2. Staff reviews cultural resource survey and affected sites for compliance with criteria in Section 
3. Historic Preservation Board recommendation in public hearing. 
4. Town Council approval or denial in public hearing. 
Design Review in the Craig and Gould Neighborhood 
New construction and design review of non-landmarked structures in the Downtown area require 
approval of the Downtown Design Review Board (Chapter 17.42).  New construction and exterior 
alterations that change the visual appearance of non-landmarked structures located within the Craig 
and Gould neighborhood must be approved by the Historic Preservation Board except for minor 
alterations to a single feature that do not dramatically alter the appearance of the structure, which can 
be approved administratively (Section 15.64.200). The intent of the architectural drawings is to depict 
the proposed changes for the benefit of the public and the Historic Preservation Board at public 
hearings. The details of construction occur at the building phase, which is an administrative process. 
Submittal Requirements for Design Review: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Architectural drawings showing property lines, setbacks, location of additions, building 
elevations, materials and colors (site plan may be required) 
o Justification that alterations meet the Secretary of Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation, Castle 
Rock Style, Castle Rock Design and F.R.E.S.H. standards 
o Current photographs of property 
Review Process for Design Review: 
1. Applicant submits design review package and fee. 
2. Staff reviews architectural drawings (and site plan, if applicable) for conformance with criteria in 
Section 15.64.200 C. 
3. Applicant revises and resubmits one or two times. 
4. Administrative approval for minor alterations (Section 15.64.200 D). 
5. Historic Preservation Board approval in public hearing (Section 15.64.200 E). Board denial may 
be appealed to Town Council (Section 15.64.200 F). 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
