Updated:  May 21, 2015 
15 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Staff provides response comments outlining the development process, issues for the applicant 
to be aware, and responses to questions. 
4. If the applicant desires, a meeting can be arranged with staff to review the Town’s comments. 
5. If the applicant chooses to proceed with the project, a formal land-use application should be 
submitted for the appropriate application(s).  A formal response to comments is not necessary 
with a PPA; however it is expected that the review information is taken into consideration when 
preparing the land use application(s). 
Sketch Plan (optional) 
The sketch plan is an optional development plan submission, which is schematic in nature and provides 
a conceptual vision of a proposed major development. Please contact the Development Services 
Department with questions regarding the sketch plan process or application. In preliminary fashion, the 
sketch plan depicts the proposed uses and densities on the property and may include design 
inspirations, open space analysis, major planned roadways, and other prominent features. Staff will 
provide feedback to the applicant about their development proposal, and with the applicant’s direction, 
it can also be reviewed by Planning Commission and Town Council. The sketch plan provides an 
opportunity for residents, Planning Commission, and Town Council to give an applicant preliminary 
feedback and the sketch plan does not result in formal action by the Town. 
Submittal Requirements for Sketch Plan: (see Sketch Plan checklist) 
o Application (no fee) 
o Sketch Plan showing outline of property, proposed land uses/densities, open space, buildings, 
streets or drives, parking and landscaping 
o Narrative describing proposal 
o Water rights decree (optional) 
o Economic analysis (optional) 
o Photos or plans of design inspiration (optional) 
o Any other relevant supplementary materials (optional) 
Review Process for Sketch Plan: 
1. Neighborhood Meeting (recommended) 
2. Applicant submits application materials. 
3. Staff review and external referral to outside agencies, utilities and jurisdictions 
4. Staff schedules Sketch Plan to be presented at public meetings with Planning Commission and 
Town Council (may be a joint meeting) 
5. Public notice (Section 17.04.050) is required prior to the public meeting. 
6. Public Meetings with Planning Commission and Town Council (may be a joint meeting) 
7. Staff provides applicant with letter summarizing major issues identified by the public, external 
review agencies, Town staff, Planning Commission, and Town Council 
