 
33 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and utilities 
(when applicable) 
3. Staff reviews and issues approval or denial. (Note:  Staff denials may be appealed to Town 
Council.) 
4. If the plat modification is approved, then plat modification form can be prepared, signed and 
submitted to the Town for recording, along with recording fee check. 
Recording: 
5. Town records plat modification at the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder. 
Easement Abandonment/Reconfiguration 
Easement abandonments and reconfigurations where improvements have been constructed must be 
approved by Town Council in a public hearing. All other easement abandonments and reconfigurations 
previously accepted by the Town by plat dedication or separate instrument may be approved 
administratively by Town staff, and the intent to abandon such property interests may be designated on 
the face of the subdivision plat or replat. 
Submittal Requirements for Easement Abandonment / Reconfiguration: 
o Application and fee (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Legal description and exhibit for requested easement abandonment or plat. 
Review Process for Easement Abandonment/Reconfiguration: 
1. Applicant submits easement abandonment application, fee, legal description, and exhibit. 
2. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and utilities 
(when applicable). 
3. Staff reviews submittal package documents and issues response comments and redlines. 
4. Applicant revises and resubmits. 
5. Administrative review and approval; denials may be appealed to Town Council. 
Additional steps for Town Council approval of easement abandonments: 
Recording: 
6. Town Council reviews the requested abandonment in a public hearing and after two readings 
either approves or denies the request. 
7. Recordation of replat and/or quitclaim deed. Applicant pays recording fees. 
Right of Way Vacation 
Requests to vacate public right-of-way must demonstrate that adjoining properties have an alternative 
means of ingress and egress and that public and private utilities and/or appurtenances located within 
the right-of-way to be vacated, shall retain easements for their continued use. 
Only the Town Council is authorized to vacate dedicated streets and other public right-of-ways that have 
been improved and opened for public use.  Such requests must be approved by ordinance, which 
requires two readings. All other right-of-way vacations previously accepted by the Town by plat 
dedication or separate instrument may be approved administratively by Town staff, and the intent to 
abandon such property interests may be designated on the face of the subdivision plat or replat. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
