Updated:  May 21, 2015 
7 
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
separate written document from the Town.  Often a meeting is set up with the applicant to go through 
the Town comments, or a meeting is set up after the applicant has had a chance to review the items. 
The intent of this meeting is to go through the comments together and make sure the applicant has a 
clear understanding of the comments and what changes need to be made for the next submittal. 
Revisions/Re-submittal:  Once the applicant has made revisions to their application, the Project Manager 
schedules a re-submittal meeting. At this meeting, the applicant brings their revised application packet, 
along with written responses to the Town or external review agencies comments. For responses to 
Town comments, the applicant needs to provide a response to the “redline” comment right next to the 
Town’s original comment.  This can be achieved by using a colored pen to write the response and then 
scanning the document or inserting a .pdf text box into the document. The intent is to provide a written 
response that is easily distinguishable from the Town’s comments on the original document; therefore 
“red” responses are discouraged. Responses such as “don’t agree” or “not changed” are not acceptable, 
and will result in the submittal not being accepted. The fast review timeframes are made possible 
because the applicant works with the Project Manager and specific reviewer to resolve issues or 
comments prior to resubmitting revised documents.  Fully addressing all comments ensures that both 
the applicant’s and Town staff’s time are used in the most efficient manner. 
Subsequent Reviews:  For the second review, the Project Manager routes the application to the relevant 
internal departments and external review agencies. Comments are compiled and provided back to the 
applicant. If there are any revisions still necessary, the applicant goes through the revision and response 
to comment process again.  Typically, projects only need two reviews, plus a special review to resolve 
remaining issues. If there are minor edits that need to be made, then a “special review” is scheduled 
and comments are returned at a meeting. If the applicant has made design changes that would require 
a third or more full reviews, additional review fees are required, per the Development Services Fee 
Schedule. 
Public Hearings:  After staff review, if a project requires public hearings, the Project Manager will work 
with the applicant to schedule public hearings before the Planning Commission, appropriate 
Board/Commission, and Town Council.  Public Notice provided via mailings to adjacent property owners, 
posting of a sign, and notice on the Town’s web site are required prior to the hearing. (Note:  Notice of 
subdivision applications occurs at the time of submittal.) 
Land use applications that go to public hearings are considered quasi-judicial, which means that 
communication with the decision makers cannot occur outside of the public hearing. Board and 
Commission members are residents appointed by the Town Council and Town Council members are 
residents elected, one from each of 7 Council Districts. 
Staff prepares a report to accompany the applicant’s plan set, which is assembled and distributed in an 
agenda packet and posted on the Town’s web site in advance of the meeting. Each land use item is 
considered a distinct public hearing, which begins with the staff presentation, then the applicant’s 
presentation of the request, and finally the public has an opportunity to speak regarding the issue.  The 
Planning Commission is a recommending body on most land use applications, meaning it will hear the 
request and then forward a recommendation to Town Council. The Design Review Board reviews 
Downtown applications and the Historic Preservation Board reviews applications related to historic 
preservation and design review in the Craig and Gould neighborhood. Town Council is the final decision 
