Updated:  May 21, 2015 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
o If Easements will be needed with this CD set, then submit a current Ownership & 
Encumbrance report with the Easement exhibit and legal description 
Review Process for Construction Documents: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Applicant submits Construction Documents and fees 
3. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and utilities, if 
applicable 
4. Staff reviews submittal package documents, (Development Agreements and Improvement 
Agreement obligations if applicable) and issues comments and redlines, including any external 
comments that may be received 
5. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
6. Staff issues approval or denial. If staff denies the Construction Documents, the applicant may 
appeal the decision to Town Council. 
Approval: 
7. If CDs are approved, then the plan set, cost estimate, and all applicable reports can be prepared, 
signed by the Professional Engineer and owner, and submitted to the Town for approval 
signature. 
8. Applicant will need to pick up Town Approved documents; scan all items; and return full size 
originals, two sets of 11x17 sized plan sets, and electronic copies of each item prior to being able 
to obtain a Construction or GESC Permit. 
9. Once CDs are approved, and all required documents are submitted to the Town, the applicant 
can apply for their Construction Permit.  (Note:  Grading, Erosion, and Sediment Control (GESC) 
plan review is also required and the GESC permit needs to be applied for with or ahead of the 
Construction Permit.)  See the following section for the GESC review information. 
(Note:  Construction Document Approval is valid for 1 year from date of Town Approval, if construction 
has not commenced. Applicant may request up to two one (1)-year extensions. It is the Applicant’s 
responsibility to track their expiration date and apply for an extension 30 days before they expire. If 
plans expire before the applicant applies for and obtains their construction permit, the applicant will 
have to reapply for the Construction Document Review.) 
Early Grading 
Early grading permits can be issued at the initial Construction Permit phase, either before or after 
platting. The Town must accept the Phase II Drainage Report prior to the early grading permit being 
issued (Stormwater Drainage Design and Technical Criteria Manual). The surety that accompanies the 
Construction Permit is for the cut or fill (whichever is greater), import or export, mobilization, and any 
multi-lot retaining walls. A separate GESC permit is also required with a separate surety to guarantee 
installation and maintenance of temporary Best Management Practices (BMP’s), restabilization of 
disturbed land, and establishment of vegetation cover. 
Grading, Erosion and Sediment Control (GESC) 
A Grading, Erosion and Sediment Control (GESC) plan review and permit are required to be obtained 
before any land disturbing activities are allowed on a subject property within the Town of Castle Rock. 
The following items are needed for a complete submittal of the Grading, Erosion and Sediment Control 
(GESC) Document and must be prepared by a Colorado licensed Professional Engineer. For details on 
