Updated:  May 21, 2015 
42 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
below ground work, along with other appropriate documentation and a review fee for each incremental 
Performance Surety reduction. The Performance Surety(s) shall not be reduced to less than 15% of the 
total estimated cost of work for the Public Improvements, regardless of how the security is provided to 
the Town. 
Format of Surety: 
The draft bond or letter of credit language needs to be submitted to the Project Manager with the Town 
so it can be reviewed by the legal department prior to being issued. The following items need to be 
included in the surety language: 
o The beneficiary needs to be listed as the Town of Castle Rock, 
o The expiration date needs to be for the length of the construction, warranty or GESC period, 
o Reference to the Improvement Agreement, if applicable, and the specific permit number the 
work is being done under, 
o Reasons the Town may draw upon the surety may include: 
 Failure of the developer to Perform under permit No. xx-xxxx, 
 If the surety has an expiration date, then include language that the surety may be drawn 
upon if the developer fails to provide a 1-year renewal of the surety within 30 days of its 
expiration and has failed to receive permit closeout at that time. 
The Town may take up to 1 week to review/markup the surety language; therefore, submit the draft 
language to the Project Manager as early as possible so it does not hold up the permit being issued. 
Release of Construction Performance Surety: 
The construction permit Performance Surety shall be released when the following requirements have 
been met: 
 All improvements proposed in the Construction Permit are complete, including all punch 
list items; 
 Record Drawings have been submitted to and approved by the Town; 
 All required Engineering letters/certifications have been submitted to the Town; 
 The Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance form has been executed by 
the Developer and the Town; and 
 The Warranty Surety (discussed below) has been submitted to the Town. 
Once the above items have been submitted to the satisfaction of the Town, the Performance Surety will 
be returned to the Developer. If the Performance Surety was provided to the Town with a Bond or 
Letter of Credit, this original document will typically be mailed back to the Developer’s address of record 
within one week via US Mail. If the Performance Surety was paid with a check, the refund request will 
be sent to the Town Finance department within 3 days. Typical processing time of a refund check is 1-2 
weeks and this will be mailed to the Developer’s address of record via US Mail.  If the Developer would 
prefer, they can request to be notified when the Performance Surety is ready, and they can pick it up. 
Construction Warranty Surety: 
Prior to the release of the construction Performance Surety, the Developer shall provide a Warranty 
Surety to the Town in an amount not less than 15% of the construction costs identified in the Public 
Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance form.  The Warranty Surety must be provided to the 
