 
1 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Chapter I- Overview 
Development Process 
The Town of Castle Rock’s land use and development is guided by the Vision 2020 and the 
Comprehensive Master Plan. The Town’s zoning and land uses are regulated either by individual 
Planned Developments and their associated Zoning Regulations (see PD Zoning Map) or by straight 
zoning in the central portion (see Zoning Map). If a property is straight zoned, the land uses and 
development standards are outlined in Chapters 17.18 through 17.30 of Title 17 of the Town’s Municipal 
Code. If a property is currently in unincorporated Douglas County, but adjacent to the Town’s boundary, 
the owner may submit a petition for annexation.  Planned Development or Straight Zoning occurs 
concurrently with annexation. 
The Town’s annexation procedures are in Title 20 of the Municipal Code.  The zoning and development 
plan procedures are in Title 17 of the Code, and the subdivision platting regulations are in Title 16.  The 
Land Development General Design Principles (Chapter 17.10) apply to all stages of development within 
the Town. 
Properties that are already in the Town must be developed consistent with their zoning or Planned 
Development, or an Amendment to the Planned Development Plan or Zoning Regulations must be 
proposed and approved. Site Development Plans must be approved prior to any commercial or 
residential development.  An Amendment to a Site Development Plan is required for redevelopment, 
new buildings, building additions, or site improvements. Unplatted properties must have a Plat 
approved prior to any Building Permits or infrastructure Construction Permits.  Prior to building permits 
for properties in Downtown Castle Rock or the Craig and Gould neighborhood proposals must go 
through approval with the Historic Preservation Board and/or Design Review Board. 
Concurrent processing of applications at all stages of the development review process are allowed.  This 
is at the property owner/developer risk in terms of preparing construction level documents in advance 
of public hearings, for example. However, concurrent processing shortens the review timelines and 
works particularly well for small projects.  Often times, developers will opt to process a PD Plan 
Amendment concurrent with a Site Development Plan and then once the public hearing process is 
completed or nearing completion, submit their infrastructure construction plans and building permit 
plans for staff review. (Note:  Staff cannot issue any construction or building permits prior to Council, 
Commission or staff approval of development plans.) 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
