 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
-
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
Submittal Requirement for GESC Permit: 
o GESC Permit Form, completed and signed by Owner and Contractor 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval or 
construction easement from the land owner is required 
o Permit fee (inspection fee) (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Approved Haul Route (if needed) 
o Street Lane Closure Application (if needed) 
o GESC Surety with Town Approved language 
o One set of 11 x 17 size of the Town Approved GESC Plans, if not already provided 
Once the Developer has paid the Permit fees and applicable use tax provided the Town with the 
construction Performance Surety, and has done the same for the project’s GESC permit, the 
Construction Permit can be issued. The Town will assign a Public Works (PW) inspector to the project, 
and the Developer will be given the inspectors name and number to schedule a Pre-construction 
meeting with the developer and the developer’s contractors.  This pre-construction meeting is typically 
held at a Town facility, as various Town personnel will attend this meeting, depending on the scope of 
the construction work. The PW Inspector will need a week or so to schedule the right personnel from 
the Town to attend this meeting. At the Pre-construction meeting, the PW Inspector will provide the 
Developer with the Approved Construction Permit and will review the construction inspection process, 
main points of contact, allowed construction work timeframes, how to schedule an inspection outside of 
normal working days, and various other construction related information. The GESC inspector will also 
attend, and will provide the Approved GESC permit at this meeting. 
Extension of Construction and GESC Permits 
Construction Permits are valid for 1 year from the date of issue. If construction will last longer than one 
year, the construction permit will need to be extended. The contractor or developer will notify the 
Public Works Inspector, fill out the appropriate form with the justification, and pay the applicable 
extension fees to cover additional inspection time. 
GESC Permits are valid for 3 years, one year of active construction (in line with the Construction Permit 
above) and a two year growing period for revegetation. In the event that active construction exceeds 
one year, the GESC Permit must be renewed. A residential subdivision project will require an active 
GESC permit until all lots of a project are transferred to the Town’s DESC program for residential 
construction or until final GESC permit close-out (after vegetation has established). 
Minor Construction (ROW and Paving) Permit 
Projects that just include paving an existing dirt/gravel parking lot, or a project that may have a small 
scope of work within the Town’s Right-of-Way (ROW) will require a Minor Construction/ROW Permit. 
Examples of a minor scope of work include, but are not limited to, repair/replacing curb returns, boring 
for irrigation sleeve or other utilities, parking lot paving, installing a small section of sidewalk, or 
landscape or irrigation work in the ROW. 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
