Updated:  May 21, 2015 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maker or appeal body in most land use applications.  Following approval by a Commission, Board or 
Council, the applicant complies with any conditions of approval and submits mylars of the plan sets for 
recordation at the County. 
Fees 
Application Fees:  Application fees are listed in the Development Services Fee Schedule. Development 
application fees should be made payable to the Town of Castle Rock and submitted with the application 
form and required submittal documents. 
Recording Fees: Fees for the recording of documents must be paid by the applicant and should be made 
payable to the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder. Recording fees are: 
24” x 36” Size Documents = $ 11 for the first page and $10 for each additional page 
Letter or Legal Size Documents = $11 for the first page and $5 for the each additional page 
Construction Permit Fees:  Infrastructure Construction and GESC Permit fees are detailed in the 
Development Services Fee Schedule. The Inspection fees are based on either the Town approved 
Engineer’s Cost Estimate of items to be inspected that goes with the Construction Plan set, or based on 
the acreage of disturbed areas. Unless otherwise specified by a Franchise Agreement with the Town, 
Use Tax is due with each Permit and is charged in accordance with the Municipal Code, Title 3, Article III. 
For Infrastructure Construction, it is calculated as ½ the Total Site Costs (which include labor and 
materials) multiplied by 5%. 
Building Permit Fees:  The Building permit fee schedule is from Table 1A in the 1997 Uniform Building 
Code.  Use tax is ½ the valuation (materials and labor, or calculated from square footage) multiplied by 
5%.  Plan review fees are due for custom home, commercial (new and tenant finish), and sign permits 
when the application is submitted. The remaining tap fees and impact fees for these permits and the 
total fees for the other types of permits are paid when the permit is picked up.  See the Development 
Services Fee Schedule.  (Note:  There is a deferral option available for the impact fees on new residential 
construction; if the deferral option is used, the balance of fees is paid before the final inspections are 
scheduled.) 
