 
46 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GESC Permits are valid for 3 years, one year of active construction (in line with the Construction Permit 
above) and a two year growing period for revegetation. In the event that active construction exceeds 
one year, the GESC Permit must be renewed. A residential subdivision project will require an active 
GESC permit until all lots of a project are transferred to the Town’s DESC program for residential 
construction or until final GESC permit close-out (after vegetation has established). 
Submittal Requirement for Minor Construction (ROW and Paving) Permit: 
o Permit Form, completed and signed by Developer and Contractor 
o If any work is proposed on land not owned by the applicant, a letter of approval or 
construction easement from the land owner is required 
o Permit fee (inspection fee and use tax) (see Development Services Fee Schedule) 
o Approved Haul Route (if needed) 
o Street Lane Closure Application (if needed) 
o Performance Surety with Town Approved language 
o Two sets of 11 x 17 size of the Town Approved Construction Drawings, if not already 
provided 
Low Impact GESC Permit 
A Low Impact GESC Permit (see GESC Manual) is issued when the scope of work and disturbance is very 
minor.  Example projects include repair and replacing existing concrete or asphalt areas, such as a curb 
ramp, non-residential driveway or sidewalk section.  A low impact GESC Permit may also cover items 
such as utility boring, where no new seeding is required or removal and replacement of landscaping. 
Low Impact GESC Permits are reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the Town’s Project Manager.  If there 
is no seeding required for a project, then a Low impact GESC permit may be used.  An example of this 
would be a project where utility lines are bored, and the bore pits are repaired with sod in an irrigated 
area. If there is concern that revegetation of disturbed areas will not occur without a 2-year growing 
season, or if the contractor disturbs areas outside of their scope of work, a Standard GESC Permit and a 
financial surety will be required. 
Infrastructure Inspections 
Public and/or necessary private improvements are required to have inspections by the Town in order to 
assure that uniformity, proper construction techniques and acceptable materials are implemented 
during the construction process. Construction Work shall be in accordance with the Town approved 
Construction Documents and may only occur with the appropriate inspections and testing.  The 
Developer shall contact the Inspector for all required field inspections of Public and private 
Improvements, and submit any third party testing as may be required. Material testing shall be done in 
accordance with the Construction Methodology and Materials Manual. 
The inspector shall have access to all work and materials for a Project at all times. The Developer shall 
provide proper facilities for such access and for inspection. The Inspector shall have the right to reject 
materials, workmanship or methods of construction not in compliance with the Town’s criteria. Rejected 
workmanship or construction methods shall be satisfactorily corrected by the Developer, and rejected 
materials shall be removed from the premises. If the Developer does not correct or remove such 
rejected items within a reasonable time, the Town may either remove materials from the Project and 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
