Updated:  May 21, 2015 
48 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infrastructure Initial Acceptance-Record Drawings 
The Developer shall obtain Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance from the Town, in 
accordance with Section 15.56.020, prior to entering the Warranty period. 
The Developer shall request an inspection when it has Substantially Completed construction of all Public 
Improvements associated with the Project. Any improvements constructed which are not in 
conformance with the approved Construction Documents, Town Criteria and other related Town Codes 
will be identified in a written notification (initial punch list) to the Developer. The Town will not accept 
any Public Improvement related to the Project until such time as the Developer satisfactorily brings all 
non-conformance items into conformance with these Regulations, the approved Construction 
Documents and other related Town Codes. 
After the Developer has satisfactorily addressed all items not in conformance listed in the initial punch 
list, the Developer shall receive written notice from the Town requesting preparation of Project Record 
Drawings by the Consultant Engineer. 
Record drawings, in conformance with the Record Drawing checklist, shall be submitted and reviewed 
by the Inspector. Once Record Drawings are approved by the Town, the Developer shall be asked to 
execute the Town's Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance document. Once executed 
the Developer shall remit the document back to the Inspector, along with the required warranty 
instrument (as specified in Section 15.58.060) and any remaining testing or certifications, as may be 
identified by the Inspector. 
The Town will sign the executed Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance document and 
file with the Department of Public Works. The date that the Developer executes the Public 
Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance document shall be the date that the Warranty Period 
begins. 
Infrastructure Warranty Period 
The Warranty Period for all Public Improvements shall be two years, commencing on the date that the 
Public Improvements Conveyance and Initial Acceptance document is executed by the Developer.  Upon 
issuance of the Construction Permit, the Developer expressly warrants and guarantees (the "Warranty"): 
•
All Work shall be performed in strict compliance with these all regulations, codes and ordinance 
of the Town; and 
•
All defective or non-conforming Work (Defective Work) identified during the Warranty Period 
shall be repaired or replaced during the Warranty Period. Defective Work includes, but is not 
limited to: 
 Defects in workmanship or materials. 
 Settling of fill or other excavated areas. 
 Any unauthorized deviations from the approved Construction Documents or Town Criteria. 
 Failure to barricade or provide necessary traffic control devices. 
 Failure to clean up after performance of the Work. 
 Any other violation of Town Criteria or other related Town Codes. 
