 
26 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
h 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
Downtown Variance 
A variance to the provisions outlined in the Downtown Overlay District, (Chapter 17.42) must be 
submitted to staff for review and then reviewed and approved by the Design Review Board.  Often 
times, Downtown variances are processed concurrently with Downtown Site Development Plan.  Please 
contact the Development Services Department with questions regarding proposed changes to 
Downtown buildings, facades, or site improvements. 
Submittal Requirements for a Downtown Variance: 
o Application form and fee ($50) 
o Justification about how the request meets the Downtown Design Review Board Variance 
criteria, Section 17.42.100 C. 
Review Process for Downtown Variance: 
1. Staff review of requested variance 
2. Public hearing before the Downtown Design Review Board, which is typically in conjunction wit 
Site Development Plan review. 
Skyline/Ridgeline Variance 
The Town’s skyline/ridgeline ordinance protects vistas and natural features by limiting building heights, 
requiring earth tone colors, evergreen trees and limited lighting (See Skyline/Ridgeline map and Chapter 
17.48).  Requests for variances to the skyline/ridgeline ordinance are heard by the Planning Commission 
with appeals to the Town Council.  Please contact the Development Services Department with questions 
regarding proposed skyline/ridgeline application. 
Submittal Requirements for Skyline/Ridgeline Variance: 
o Application form for skyline/ridgeline variance 
o Application fee ($500 for initial lot and $10 for each additional lot) 
o Site plan, architectural facade drawings, renderings, photographs, photo-simulations, 
Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping simulations. 
o Narrative stating the applicants’ request and rational for the variance in comparison to the 
criteria (Section 17.48.090 C). 
Review Process for Skyline/Ridgeline Variance: 
1. Applicant submits the application and filing fee 
2. Staff reviews the request and makes any comments on the application. 
3. The applicant must comply with the public hearing notice requirements in Section 17.04.050. 
4. The Planning Commission hears the request in a public hearing and based on the review criteria 
in Section 17.48.090 C., and either approves, approves with conditions, or denies the variance. 
5. Appeals to the Planning Commission’s decision must be filed within 30 days (Section 17.48.090 
B). Those appeals are heard by the Town Council in a public hearing who makes the final 
decision. 
Technical Criteria Variance 
A technical criteria variance is a deviation from a provision in the Town’s technical manuals (Section 
17.32.050). Variances to any of the provisions in the Town’s technical manuals can be approved either 
administratively, or by Town Council following appeal of an administrative decision. Exceptions from 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
