Updated:  May 21, 2015 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
denies a Site Development Plan, the applicant may appeal the decision, which is reviewed 
 
Planning Commission and Town Council as described below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.
 
 
11.
 
  
 
  
 
12.
 
13.
  
  
 
 
14.
 
15.
 
.  
.  
o Project narrative 
o Compliance with Comprehensive Master Plan/Vision 2020/General Design Principles 
(Chapter 17.10) 
o Compliance with Municipal Codes and Technical Manuals 
o Overall project benefits and impact on surrounding properties 
o Provision of infrastructure 
o Any areas of non-compliance with guidelines or manuals and variances to technical 
manuals 
o Site Development Plan, including: Land uses, number of lots/units, site coverages, open space, 
building square footage, number of units, minimum building and parking setbacks, public land 
dedications, street cross sections, site layout, buffers, building configuration, façade elevations, 
signage, overall grading plan, overall utility plan, general lighting plan, conceptual landscape 
plan 
o Land Suitability Analysis Report (LSAR) 
o Traffic Impact Analysis 
o Phase II Drainage Report 
o Preliminary Utility Report 
o Auto-turn exhibit (reflecting adequate turning radii for Fire apparatus and trucks) 
Review Process for Site Development Plan: 
1. Pre-Application meeting with staff. 
2. Neighborhood Meeting (recommended). 
3. Applicant submits application materials and fees. 
4. Town sends out external referrals to appropriate jurisdictions, districts, agencies, and dry 
utilities 
5. Staff reviews submittal package documents and issues response comments and redlines, 
including any external comments that may be received 
6. Applicant revises and resubmits (typically one or two times). 
7. For projects that can be processed administratively, staff issues approval or denial If staff 
by 
Additional steps for Public Hearings: 
Recording: 
8. Once revisions have been made to any staff comments, applicant resubmits, staff schedules 
public hearings and prepares staff report including a recommendation regarding the Site 
Development Plan. 
9. Public notice is required prior to hearings (Section 17.04.050) 
 Planning Commission reviews in a public hearing and makes a recommendation to Town 
Council. 
 Use by Special Review applications are reviewed by Planning Commission with a 
recommendation to Town Council. If a UBSR is a tenant finish in a commercial center, the 
Commission decides, with appeals going to Council. (Section 17.38.050) 
 Town Council reviews Site Development Plans in a public hearing and makes the final 
determination for approval or denial. (Section 17.38.040) 
 Downtown Site Development Plans are reviewed and approved only by the Design Review 
Board. The applicant may appeal the Design Review Board’s decision to Town Council. (Chapter 
17.42) 
 If Site Development Plan is approved, the applicant prepares mylars, signs and submits to the 
Town for recording, along with recording fees check The applicant has 180 days from approval 
date to submit mylars to the Town for recording. 
 Town records the Site Development Plan with the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder. 
