 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Chapter IX – Site Grading/Construction 
Once an area has received the required zoning and site planning approvals, then the site may be eligible 
to begin construction of the necessary improvements.  Construction permits are submitted to the 
Development Services Department, located at 100 N. Wilcox Street.  Staff will review the Construction 
Documents (CDs) for the proposed infrastructure to support the proposed development, along with the 
erosion and sediment controls (GESC) that are necessary during construction. Often this review is done 
in conjunction with a proposed Final Plat that may depend on this infrastructure to create viable lots. If 
the area has already been platted, then CDs may be needed to provide the site specific infrastructure 
once a known user has been identified. 
Review Timeframes: The Development Services Department has target review timeframes as described 
below: 

For planned developments, larger site development plans, and infrastructure construction 
documents, the review process includes: first review of 5 ½ weeks, second review of 3 ½ weeks, 
and a third and final review typically occurs at the weekly TRC meeting with immediate action. 
This equates to a total of 10 weeks in staff hands. 

For smaller projects and site development plans, the review process includes: first review of 3 ½ 
weeks, second review 2 ½ weeks, and a third and final review to occur at the weekly TRC 
meeting with immediate action. This equates to a total of 7 weeks in staff hands. 
Construction Documents (CDs) include the site Construction Plans that are engineering drawings 
depicting public and private site infrastructure and improvements, including streets, building and 
parking areas, grading, utilities, storm water facilities, easement exhibit and legal descriptions, 
landscaping and irrigation systems.  CDs also include the Engineer’s Cost Estimate for the project, along 
with necessary technical design reports, such as the Final Utility Reports, Phase III Drainage Reports, and 
updates to Traffic Impact Analysis when needed. The Construction Plans are the final detailed design of 
the site, and should match the intent of the Site Development Plan (SDP) or previously approved Final 
PD Site Plan (FPD). If major elements of the proposed site vary from what was approved in a 
development plan, the applicant may need to amend the development plan. Generally though, if the 
major elements meet the intent of the approved development plan, the final designs are approved 
through the CD level. The CDs will serve as the final approved documents for the site and infrastructure 
design, until the project is completed and Record Drawings are submitted to the Town. 
The detailed design of the project should follow the design criteria listed in the Town Technical Manuals. 
If any exceptions to the technical criteria (previously called Public Works Variances) are requested, the 
technical criteria variance should be submitted with the CDs for review. If a technical criteria variance 
was approved with a prior site planning step, then this approval should be included in the Construction 
Plan set. See the section earlier in this manual on Technical Criteria Variances for the submittal process 
and required documentation. 
If the applicant is proposing to phase the project’s infrastructure construction, the phasing plan will 
need to demonstrate that each phase is independently sustainable.  This may require adequate water 
main loops, street access, temporary fire apparatus access roads, and turnarounds that meet the Fire 
Department’s requirements for dead-end fire apparatus access roads, and meet other review criteria, 
Updated:  May 21, 2015 
