Updated:  May 21, 2015 
13 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
to Town Council, the comments and feedback provided to staff during the administrative notice process 
will be forwarded to Town Council as part of the public record for that hearing. 
Mineral Rights Notice. The applicant shall provide written notice within 30 days of the initial application 
for development on a vacant property to all subsurface mineral rights owners.  The written notice must 
be sent via first class US Mail to the mineral estate owner and shall contain a notice letter, which 
includes the name of the applicant, time and place of the first public hearing (if applicable), the nature 
of the application, location and legal description of the property that is the subject of the application 
(Section 17.04.080).  The applicant should utilize the Douglas County Clerk and Recorder to determine 
the names and addresses of the mineral rights owners. 
Written notice prior to public hearing. The applicant shall provide written notice 15 days prior to each 
public hearing to all property owners within 300 ft. of the subject property.  The written notice should 
be sent via first class US Mail and shall contain a notice letter approved by the Town and a copy of the 
proposed site plan. The applicant should utilize the Assessor Records of Douglas County, Colorado to 
determine the names and addresses of the property owners within 300 ft. 
Posted notice prior to public hearing. The applicant shall post a sign on the subject property facing each 
adjacent street at least 15 days prior to public hearing; this gives notice to the general public of the 
upcoming hearing. The signs are provided by the Town. The applicant must post the sign in a location 
clearly visible from the public on the street and in a secure manner. The applicant should monitor the 
sign’s condition each day before the hearing to verify that it has not been compromised by wind, 
weather, or vandalism. 
Web Site Notice prior to public hearing. The Town shall post a notice of the hearing on the Town’s web 
page at www.CRgov.com/notices at least 7 days prior to the public hearing. 
Submittal of Affidavits.  Three days prior to the public hearing, the applicant must submit to the staff 
Project Manager, the affidavit of mailing with a copy of the notice letter, site plan and list of mailed 
property owners, and the affidavit of posting with a photograph of each posted sign. The affidavits are 
made part of the public record and are subject to public review or review by the Courts during any legal 
actions that might follow the development application action. 
