El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 3
Effective 12/12/2017
hearing, following the proper notice procedure, in order for the parties in interest to 
have the opportunity to address any misrepresentation of fact or non-compliance issue.
(D)
Appoint Members
The BoCC shall appoint members of the Board of Adjustment and Planning 
Commission.
(E)
Retain Experts
The BoCC may consider the qualifications of, contract with, and retain technical experts 
to assist in the review of proposals submitted pursuant to this Code.
(F)
Delegate Powers
The BoCC may delegate powers, duties, and responsibilities to the Planning 
Commission, Board of Adjustment, other boards and commissions or committees, and 
County staff to the extent permitted by law and provided that the delegation is made 
subject to specific instruction, criteria, and standards to guide the exercise of any 
delegated discretion.
(G)
Impose Reasonable Conditions
The BoCC may impose reasonable conditions upon approval of any application.
(H)
Interpret this Code and Hear Appeals
The BoCC is the ultimate interpreter of the meaning and application of this Code as to 
the type, nature and rights of uses, conforming and nonconforming, as allowed under 
this Code. Except for those procedures expressly prescribed for appealing of certain 
administrative decisions, all interpretations or applications by the PCD Director as they 
relate to uses under this Code and believed to be erroneous or inapplicable may be 
appealed to the BoCC.
(I)
Grant Waivers
The BoCC, at a public hearing on a specific application, may hear the request for a waiver 
from the subdivision design standards of Chapters 6, 7 and 8 and decide to accept or 
reject the request, or make modifications to the waiver request.
2.2.2. 
Planning Commission
(A)
Establishment, Membership, and Rules of Procedure
The BoCC shall appoint a Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall 
consist of 9 commission members. Each member shall be a resident of El Paso 
County. The Planning Commission shall meet once a month or as often as deemed 
necessary for the transaction of business. The authority of the Planning 
