El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 6
Effective 12/12/2017
The Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable conditions on approval of 
any application.
2.2.4. PCD Director
(A)
Designation
The PCD Director is designated as the official charged with the administration of the 
LDC.
(B)
Powers and Duties
The PCD Director, through the authority granted by this Code, the County 
Administrator and the BoCC, is empowered to do the following with respect to 
administration of this Code.
(1)
Render Interpretations
The PCD Director may render interpretations of all provisions of this Code. 
Interpretations applicable to 2 or more properties (general interpretation) 
shall be collected and retained by the PCD and made available to the public 
for inspection. Each general interpretation shall be provided to the Planning 
Commission, Board of Adjustment and BoCC.
(2)
Establish Application Requirements
The PCD Director may establish application and submittal requirements and 
schedules for review of applications and appeals pursuant to this Code.
(3)
Provide Advice
The PCD Director may provide expert technical assistance to the BoCC, the 
Planning Commission, and the Board of Adjustment and determine when 
outside, technical expertise is needed to assist in the review of any 
development application submitted pursuant to this Code.
(4)
Review Applications
The PCD Director may review development applications and make 
recommendations to the BoCC, the Planning Commission, and the 
Board of Adjustment concerning compliance with this Code.
(5)
Maintain Master Plan
The PCD Director may maintain the Master Plan including, but not 
limited to, land use, transportation, and open space elements.
(6)
Administer Standards and Regulations
The PCD Director may administer the provisions of this Code as they relate 
to the review and permitting of development.
(7)
Promulgate Administrative Forms
The PCD Director may promulgate and require the use of application 
forms and other standardized documentation deemed necessary or 
helpful to administer the provisions of this Code.
(8)
Make Administrative Decisions
