El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 5
Effective 12/12/2017
The Planning Commission may consider the qualifications of, contract 
with, and retain technical experts to assist in the review of proposals 
submitted pursuant to this Code.
(7)
Make Recommendations on Applications
The Planning Commission may review and make recommendations 
concerning applications for zoning text and map amendments, special use 
permits, variance of use applications and subdivisions of land and any other 
applications as identified in this Code, State Statute and the Procedures 
Manual.
(8)
Recommend or Impose Reasonable Conditions Upon Approvals
The Planning Commission may recommend reasonable conditions for 
approval of any application where the Planning Commission acts as a 
recommender and may impose reasonable conditions on approval of any 
application where the Planning Commission acts as a decision maker.
2.2.3. Board of Adjustment
(A)
Establishment, Membership, and Rules of Procedure
The BoCC shall appoint a Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment is 
established by resolution of the BoCC pursuant to State Statutes. The Board of 
Adjustment shall consist of 5 members. Each member shall be a legal resident of El 
Paso County. The Board of Adjustment shall meet once a month or as often as 
necessary for the transaction of its business. The meetings shall be noticed and 
open to the public.. The affirmative vote of at least 4 members is required for any 
action by the Board of Adjustment regarding an appeal or application.
(B)
Authority
The Board of Adjustment shall hear and determine appeals of general relief 
decisions and dimensional variances in accordance with this Code the Procedures 
Manual, or as established by Colorado law. Decisions of the Board of Adjustment may 
not be appealed to the BoCC, but shall be appealed pursuant to State Statute and 
State Rules of Civil Procedure. The Board of Adjustment, through the authority 
granted to it by C.R.S. §30-28-117 and C.R.S. §30-28-118 and this Code, is 
empowered to do the following with respect to administration of this Code.
(1)
Grant Variances
The Board of Adjustment may grant or deny a variance pursuant to the 
requirements and procedures of this Code relating to special physical 
requirements, but not to use, of the property.
(2)
Hear and Decide Appeals of Administrative Determinations
The Board of Adjustment may hear and decide appeals brought by any 
aggrieved person regarding allegations of error by an administrative 
official in the application or enforcement of this Code.
(3)
Impose Reasonable Conditions
