El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 1
Effective 12/12/2017
Chapter Two
ADMINISTRATION
2.1.
GENERAL
2.1.1
Purpose
This Chapter sets forth the general authorities used in the administration of LDC including 
the types of review processes established to facilitate fair and effective decision-making 
and to encourage public participation.
2.1.2
Procedures Manual
The PCD Director shall establish processes, standards, and procedures to support the 
efficient review of development applications for conformance with this Code and State 
statute. The processes, standards, and procedures established by the PCD Director shall 
be published in a Procedures Manual, and may include detailed submittal requirements, 
application forms, review procedures including public notice requirements, review policies 
and guidelines to support the implementation and administration of the LDC. The public 
notice requirements the Procedures Manual, including the nature, extent, time period, 
and methods of delivery, shall, at a minimum, conform to the requirements of State 
Statute. The public notice requirements established by the PCD Director may exceed the 
minimum requirements of State Statute where determined necessary by the PCD Director 
to achieve the purposes of this Code.
The Procedures Manual and any amendments thereto shall become effective when 
approved by the PCD Director; however the Procedures Manual and any amendments 
thereto shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and BoCC for review and 
comment within 30 days of approval by the PCD Director. The Planning Commission and 
BoCC shall provide comments to the PCD Director within 30 days of receipt of the 
Procedures Manual or any amendment thereto. The PCD Director shall consider any 
comments provided by the Planning Commission and BoCC, and may amend the 
Procedures Manual based on the comments received from the Planning Commission and 
BoCC. The Planning Commission and BoCC may, but are not required to, endorse the 
Procedures Manual and any amendments thereto.
The Procedures Manual is a management and administration tool for the PCD. As a result, 
it is the duty of the PCD Director to develop and maintain the Procedures Manual in a 
manner that ensures the achievement of organizational and administrative efficiencies, 
timely processing of development applications, and effective and fair public involvement 
in the processing and review of development applications and administration of this Code.
A copy of the Procedures Manual shall be on file in the PCD. The Procedures Manual shall 
control the processing and review of all development applications.
