DRAFT FOR DISCUSSION ONLY - 
SUBJECT TO FURTHER REVIEW AND REVISION 
- 4 - 
 
2. 
Additions that do not increase the footprint of a structure by more than 500 
square feet compared to the condition of the structure on April 1, 2026, as 
determined based on city and county records. 
3. 
The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the exterior walls of 
an existing building, when less than 25 percent of the surface area of all 
exterior walls is affected compared to the condition of the exterior walls on 
April 1, 2026, as determined based on city and county records. 
4. 
The reconstruction, replacement, alteration, or repair of the exterior roof 
covering of an existing building, when less than 25 percent of the surface 
area of the exterior roof covering or an attachment thereto is affected 
compared to the condition of the exterior roof covering on April 1, 2026, as 
determined based on city and county records. 
5. 
Alterations or repairs to the exterior of an existing structure, or an 
attachment to it, when less than twenty-five percent of the exterior of the 
structure is affected by the alteration or repair.  
6. 
Painting, staining and similar maintenance or restorative work.  
7. 
One-story detached accessory, nonhabitable structures, such as tool and 
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided that the floor area 
does not exceed 120 square feet and the structure is located greater than 
or equal to 10 feet from the nearest adjacent occupiable structure. 
8. 
Accessory structures and buildings of an accessory character classified as 
Utility and Miscellaneous Group U (including Agricultural Structures) 
located more than 50 feet from a structure containing occupiable or 
habitable space.  
9. 
Fences located more than 8 feet from a habitable structure.  
10. 
Any thirty-five acre parcel with only one residential structure on it that does 
not abut a residential or commercial area.  
 
5. 
SECTION 103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY is deleted in its entirety and 
replaced with the following: 
 
SECTION 103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY 
103.1 Creation of agency. The [INSERT NAME OF DEPARTMENT] is hereby 
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the code official. The 
function of the agency shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement 
of the provisions of this code. 
103.2 Appointment. The code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing 
authority of the jurisdiction. 
103.3 Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and 
with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the code official shall have the 
authority to appoint a deputy code official, other related technical officers, inspectors 
and other employees. Such employees shall have powers as delegated by the code 
official. 
 
SECTION 103—CODE COMPLIANCE AGENCY 
 
