CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-12 
b. 
Ensure compatibility between airports and surrounding land uses; and 
c. 
Protect the airport from incompatible encroachment. 
2. 
Applicability 
The Airport Environs Overlay District shall serve as an overlay district that applies additional standards 
and requirements to properties located within an underlying zoning district.  In case of conflicting 
standards and requirements, the more stringent standards and requirements shall apply. 
3. 
General Provisions 
Every development application for property located within the Grand Junction Regional Airport 
Influence Area shall comply with all restrictions contained within the adopted Airport Master Plan as 
may be amended, and applicable sections of this LDC.  In addition, any development application for 
property located within such Airport Influence Area, and any development application for property 
located within one-half (½) mile of any airport or air navigation facility other than Grand Junction 
Regional Airport, shall comply with any applicable restrictions contained in Title 14 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, Subchapter I, Federal Aviation Regulations, including, without limitation, Part 77 
(height restrictions) and Part 150 (noise compatibility planning). 
4. 
Grand Junction Regional Airport Environs Overlay Maps 
Maps shall be referred to as part of this Section 5.05 D. of the Mesa County Land Development Code.  
5. 
Subdistricts 
In order to carry out the provisions of this regulation, the AE, Airport Environs Overlay District is divided 
into four (4) subdistricts that represent the differing levels of noise impact and hazard from aircraft 
overflight.  An area covered by more than one (1) zone shall be limited to the more restrictive use. 
The zones are as follows: 
a. 
Subdistrict A (Area of Influence) 
An area surrounding the airport impacted or influenced by proximity of the airport, either by 
aircraft overflight, noise, and/or vibrations. 
b. 
Subdistrict B (Noise Zone) 
Includes the area within the 65 Ldn to 70 Ldn noise-exposure area as determined in the Grand 
Junction Regional Airport Master Plan. 
c. 
Subdistrict C (Critical Zone) 
A rectangular-shaped zone located directly off the end of a runway's primary surface, beginning 
two hundred (200) feet from the end of the pavement, which is critical to aircraft operations (i.e., 
more apt to have accidents within it because of the takeoff and landing mode of aircraft in that 
particular area) as determined in the Grand Junction Regional Airport Master Plan. 
d. 
Subdistrict D (Clear Zone) 
A triangular-shaped zone located directly off the end of a runway's primary surface, beginning 
two hundred (200) feet from the end of the pavement, which is clear of all above-ground 
obstruction or construction. The width is the same as the primary surface. The length is determined 
by the use of the runway, in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations. 
6. 
Amendments 
The boundaries of the Airport Environs Overlay District and its subdistricts, as adopted herein, shall be 
reviewed and amended whenever the Grand Junction Regional Airport Authority updates or amends 
the noise contour maps.  It shall be the responsibility of the Grand Junction Regional Airport Authority 
to notify Mesa County of such updates or amendments and to provide a copy of same to Mesa 
County. 
