CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-12 
Mining and extractive uses shall be subject to the standards below: 
1. 
An excavation and rehabilitation plan shall be required for any mining or extractive use. 
2. 
An excavation permit, if applicable, issued by the State of Colorado in conformance with the Open 
Mining Land Reclamation Act, shall be required. 
3. 
Excavation or deposit of overburden shall not be permitted within thirty (30) feet of a boundary of an 
adjacent property, easement, irrigation ditch, or right-of-way unless by written agreement of the 
owner of such property, easement, irrigation ditch, or right-of-way. 
4. 
Excavation within one hundred twenty-five (125) feet of a dwelling unit shall be prohibited unless by 
written agreement of the owner and occupant of the residence. Excavation involving the use of rock 
crushers, asphalt plant, cement batch plant, and other similar equipment within two hundred fifty (250) 
feet of a dwelling unit shall be prohibited.  
5. 
All excavation activities shall be set back at least one hundred (100) feet from road rights-of-way and 
the one hundred (100) year floodway of any watercourses. The watercourse setback may be varied, 
based on Colorado Department of Wildlife comments concerning site-specific factors. Existing trees 
and ground cover along public road frontage and drainage ways shall be preserved, maintained 
and supplemented, if necessary, from the depth of the setback to protect against and reduce noise, 
dust and erosion. 
6. 
The operator shall submit a route plan (haul road plan) to the Public Works Department and seek 
permission to use any public rights-of-way. The Public Works Department may place reasonable 
restrictions on such right-of-way use. Alternative haul routes shall be developed where the haul route 
impacts the health, safety, and welfare of the local area. 
7. 
Haul roads within the premises shall be maintained in a reasonably dust-free condition and shall be 
contained within the pit (after excavation allows) to the maximum extent feasible.  
8. 
Mining and extractive uses may be limited to specific days and hours of operation.  
9. 
The operator shall not excavate, store overburden, excavate materials, or dike in such a manner as 
to damage to public facilities, or increase any drainage or flooding on property not owned by the 
operator. 
10. Where the operation is adjacent to subdivided or developed property, fencing, buffering and/or 
screening may be required to prevent the visibility of the mining operation. 
11. Unless approved as part of the Conditional Use Permit, once mining has been completed, the site shall 
not to be used as an area to stockpile sand or gravel resources, if the operation is adjacent to 
subdivided property or to developed commercial or residential property.   
12. Operations shall comply with noise, vibration, and other standards of Mesa County and noise 
standards enumerated in C.R.S. §25-12-103. 
13. All air emissions shall comply with standards established by the Mesa County Health Department, State 
Health Department, and the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission. 
14. All water uses and discharges shall conform to standards established by the State Water Pollution 
Control Commission and the water laws of the State of Colorado. 
15. A development schedule shall be submitted describing the life span of the plan in years (ranges are 
acceptable), and, if applicable, the years per phase.  
16. A Development Improvements Agreement (DIA) shall be required to ensure that any structures, roads, 
or landscaping necessary to mitigate the impacts of the operation on nearby property owners or 
residents will be constructed at those times stated in any related condition attached to the 
Conditional Use Permit. Where appropriate, a landscaping agreement may be used in lieu of the DIA. 
O. 
Multi-family Development. 
Multi-family developments shall be subject to the standards listed below: 
1. 
Landscaped buffer requirements for multi-story multi-family development adjacent to single-family 
