CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-11 
3. 
Standards  
a. 
Residential 
One (1) dwelling unit per two-thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet minimum lot area is 
encouraged. 
b. 
Manufactured Homes 
Manufactured Home Parks should not be located along State Highway 65 and KE Road 
frontages. 
c. 
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks 
RV developments may be located along Highway 65 and KE Road.  Proposals must comply with 
campground standards of this LDC. 
d. 
Business 
A minimum building lot size of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet is required to allow 
adequate parking, landscaping and circulation. 
e. 
Mixed Use 
A mixture of both business and residential uses on individual parcels is allowed along State 
Highway 65 frontage. 
f. 
B-2 
All residential uses and business uses are allowed in the B-2 district. 
g. 
Building Height 
Maximum building height shall be thirty-five (35) feet or two (2) stories.  
h. 
Setbacks: 
(1) 
Front (street): ten (10) feet from front property line or curb line 
(a) Front porches and canopies may extend five (5) feet into the front setback. 
(2) 
Sides: zero (0) feet 
(3) 
Rear:  ten (10) feet 
i. 
Architectural Features 
Western style architecture is encouraged, e.g. liberal use of front porches, wood facades, false 
fronts, flat and pitched roof structures, non-reflective metal roofing, etc.  Front porches are 
encouraged to be continuous with neighboring structures. 
j. 
Signs 
Every sign shall be in good proportion and visually integrated with buildings and surrounding uses.  
Each sign shall be compatible with adjoining premises and should not compete for attention. Use 
of wall, roof, hanging, and free standing monument signs are encouraged. Proposals must 
conform with all applicable sign regulations. 
k. 
Landscaping 
The Landscape Standards of this LDC apply to all new developments. 
D. 
Airport Environs Overlay District 
1. 
Purpose 
The Airport Environs Overlay District is hereby created with the following purposes: 
a. 
Protect the public health, safety and welfare by regulating development and land use within 
noise sensitive areas and airport hazard areas; 
