CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-5 
headquarters in close proximity to their areas of operations.  These land uses may be allowed in locations in the 
more remote rural areas of Mesa County.  Field office facilities include buildings with offices for employees, day 
rooms for unexpected overnight stays by personnel caused by unforeseen weather and operational circumstances 
(not for routine occupancy), temporary office space for employees and contractors, warehouses, outdoor storage 
of equipment, supplies, fuel and chemicals necessary for oil and gas field operations on the site, lay down yards, 
maintenance shops for vehicles, equipment and prefabrication of oil and gas facilities, and private communication 
towers and satellite dish communication equipment.  This use is not intended to replace those uses more 
appropriately permitted under Oil and Gas Support Services. 
Fill:  A deposit of material or obstruction of any kind which is placed, stored, or dumped within an area subject to 
flooding. 
Fire Protection District: A Fire Protection District within Mesa County is defined as one which has been recognized 
by resolution as per C.R.S 32-1-102 (2022) by the BoCC.  
Flea Market:  Commercial activities held in an open area or enclosed structure in which stalls or sales areas are set 
aside, and rented or otherwise provided, and which are intended for use by various individuals where goods are 
offered for sale to the general public by individual sellers.  This does not include shopping centers, individual retail 
operations, or sales conducted by a nonprofit or charitable organization. Flea markets are also known as swap 
meets, auctions or open-air markets or other similarly named or labeled activities.  Garage sales, rummage sales, 
and events defined in Section 6.05 B. are not considered to be flea markets.  
Flood:  Temporary rise in a watercourse, flow, or stage, that results in water overlapping its banks and inundating 
areas adjacent to the channel. 
Flood Fringe District:  The area within the 100-year floodplain in which the flood waters are relatively shallow, and 
move at velocities in the neighborhood of one to four feet per second. 
Flood Fringe:  The area, other than the stream channel and floodway, which occupies the remainder of the 100-
year floodplain, and receives shallower waters and less velocities, as defined by the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency. 
Flood Insurance Study:  An official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (Federal 
Emergency Management Agency) that includes profiles, the Floodplain and Floodway Boundary Maps, and the 
water surface elevation of the 100-year flood. 
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the 
community. 
Flood of One Hundred Year Frequency (100-Year Flood):  A flood, the magnitude of which has a one (1) percent 
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, as determined by probability analysis of historical and 
hydrological data. 
Flood Prone Area:  An area adjoining a watercourse, which may be considered subject to flooding during the 100-
year flood on the basis of historical information, topography, vegetation, and other naturally occurring indicators, 
but where precise dimensions of the 100-year floodplain have not been delineated by Flood Insurance Studies. 
Flood Proofing: A combination of provisions, changes, or adjustments to structures and movable objects, or to 
surrounding areas, primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages. 
Flood Regulatory Area: That portion of the floodplain that is subject to inundation by the 100-year flood. This area 
may be divided into the Floodway District and the Flood Fringe District. 
Floodplain: The floodplain is made up of three parts, the stream channel, the floodway, and the flood fringe, as 
defined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
Floodway District: That portion of the designated floodplain which is required to carry and discharge a 100-year 
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height at any point.  The 
Colorado statewide standard for the designated height to be used for all newly studied reaches shall be one-half 
foot (six inches). Letters of Map Revision to existing floodway delineations may continue to use the floodway criteria 
in place at the time of the existing floodway delineation. 
Floodway:  The channel of a river or other watercourse and adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to 
