CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-21 
Personal Services, or Safety Services. 
b. 
Utility offices where employees or customers are generally present are classified as  Office 
and 
Personal Services. 
c. 
Bus barns are classified as Warehouse and Freight Movement. 
d. 
Telecommunication facilities and support structures are classified as Telecom Facilities. 
J. 
Utility Corridors  
1. 
Characteristics 
 This category includes public or private passageways, including easements, for the express purpose 
of transmitting or transporting electricity, gas, oil, water, sewage, communication signals, or other 
similar services on a regional level. 
2. 
Examples 
 Examples include major utility transmission lines and pipelines, including 115kV or larger electrical 
transmission lines and gas compressor and transfer stations.  Minor facilities include above ground 
structures such as valves, pump stations, transformers and other equipment with that cover a small or 
limited area. 
3. 
Exceptions 
 Utility corridors located within public rights-of-way are not included. 
K. 
Utilities, Production  
1. 
Characteristics 
A facility designed and operated for the generation, and distribution of electricity which use fossil 
fuels, solar energy, hydroelectric energy, geothermal energy, nuclear, biomass energy or wind 
energy as a resource for the primary purpose of selling electricity generated to the electric power 
grid.  
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses may include parking and control, monitoring, data or transmission or battery storage 
equipment and agrivoltaics. 
3. 
Exceptions 
a. Does not apply to on-site generation equipment when such use is an accessory use as 
described in Section 6.02 CC of this LCD. 
b. Transmission lines, substations, and pipelines. 
c. Utility production facilities with no occupied structures or full-time on-site employees are exempt 
from the requirements for potable water required in Section 8.09. 
SECTION 12.05 | COMMERCIAL USE CATEGORIES 
A. 
Retail Sales and Service 
1. 
Characteristics 
 Retail Sales and Service firms are involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or used products to the 
general public. They may also provide offices, personal services or entertainment, or provide product 
repair or services for consumer and business goods. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses may include offices, drive-throughs, services, repair, storage of goods, manufacture or 
repackaging of goods for on-site sale, and parking. 
3. 
Examples 
Stores selling, leasing, or renting consumer, home and business goods (including art, art supplies, 
