CHAPTER 2 | REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
2-2 
c. 
Planned Unit Development Outline Development Plan and Rezoning (Section 4.12 C.) 
d. 
Conditional Use Permits (Section 4.03) 
e. 
Register of Historic Landmarks (Section 4.14) 
4. 
Other Matters 
The Planning Commission shall also have such duties as determined by the Board of County 
Commissioners or as may otherwise be required by State Statutes.  
SECTION 2.03 | BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 
A. 
Powers and Duties  
The Board of Adjustment’s powers and duties under this Land Development Code are set out in this 
subsection. 
1. 
The Board of Adjustment shall be responsible for reviewing and taking final action to approve, approve 
with conditions, or deny Zoning Variance applications (Section 4.22). 
2. 
The Board of Adjustment shall be responsible for reviewing and taking final action to approve, approve 
with conditions or deny applications to exceed the maximum size allowed by the Code for an 
accessory dwelling (Section 4.22).  
3. 
In all matters where appeal powers have not been specifically assigned to the Planning Commission 
or Board of County Commissioners, the Board of Adjustment shall be responsible for hearing appeals 
of administrative decisions and for taking the final action to uphold or overturn the administrative 
official’s decision related only to the enforcement of the zoning requirements of this Land 
Development Code in Chapters 5 and Chapter 7. 
SECTION 2.04 | FLOODPLAIN BOARD OF APPEALS 
A. 
Powers and Duties  
The Floodplain Board of Appeals’ powers and duties under this Land Development Code are set out in this 
subsection. 
1. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall be responsible for hearing appeals of the Floodplain 
Administrator’s decisions on Floodplain Development Permits, and for taking the final action to uphold 
or overturn the Floodplain Administrator’s decision (Section 4.7). 
2. 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall be responsible for reviewing and taking final action to approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny Floodplain Variance applications (Section 4.8). 
SECTION 2.05 | FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR 
A. 
Designation of Floodplain Administrator  
The Public Works Director shall designate a staff person who shall serve as the Floodplain Administrator. 
B. 
Powers and Duties  
1. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for reviewing Floodplain Development Permits to 
determine if the permit requirements of this Land Development Code have been satisfied and for 
acting to approve, approve with conditions, or deny such permits. In so doing, the Floodplain 
Administrator shall ensure that all other necessary permits have been obtained from those 
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required by federal or state law. 
2. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for making interpretations regarding boundaries of 
the Flood Prone, Flood Fringe, and Floodway Districts. 
3. 
The Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for preparing reports in support of the Floodplain 
Board of Appeals’ hearings on appeals and Floodplain Variances. 
