CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-14 
2. 
All oil and gas well wastes must be disposed of in an approved manner.  
3. 
All State and Federal permits must be obtained and evidence of approval of applicable permits shall 
be submitted to Mesa County prior to commencing operations. 
4. 
Abandonment of a well for a period of one (1) year or longer shall constitute abandonment of the 
use. (Abandonment is used here as defined by the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission.) 
5. 
Permits pertaining to oversize/overweight vehicles shall be obtained by the operator from the Mesa 
County Public Works Department. 
a. 
Oversize/overweight vehicles may be restricted from use of County roads during periods when 
roads are wet and damage to the roads could occur. Restoring roads to County standards after 
damage occurs is the responsibility of the applicant. 
6. 
Permanent structures/facilities shall be painted or otherwise treated to blend with the surrounding 
area. 
7. 
The applicant shall notify the nearest fire protection district of the location of the drill site and submit 
evidence to Mesa County of such notification prior to commencing operations. 
8. 
Approval of the use in no way precludes Mesa County from seeking special field rules or other relief 
from the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. 
9. 
A reclamation plan shall be submitted. 
10. The operator shall grant to Mesa County all rights of access to the project site for purposes of verifying 
compliance with the standards of this LDC and site inspection as held by said applicant. 
R. 
Produce Stand 
1. 
Produce stands are allowed only for products produced on the premises provided no hazards are 
created with parking, ingress, egress, and signage and the operation does not disrupt the peace, 
quiet and dignity of the neighborhood.  
2. 
Produce stands in nonresidential zone districts may include products produced off-premises and 
require a temporary use permit.  
S. 
Telecommunications Facilities  
1. 
General 
All telecommunications facilities shall comply with the standards of this LDC, all applicable standards 
of the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended, and all applicable requirements of the 
Federal Aviation Administration. 
2. 
Disputes 
If an applicant for a telecommunications facility claims that one (1) or more standards of this LDC are 
inconsistent with the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended, or would prohibit the 
effective provision of wireless communications within the relevant market area, the Decision-Making 
Body may require that the application be reviewed by a qualified engineer for a determination of 
whether compliance with one (1) or more standards of this LDC would prohibit effective service. Any 
costs shall be charged to the applicant. 
3. 
Rural Planning Area 
a. 
Attached Telecommunications Facilities 
Attached telecommunications facilities shall be allowed by right in the districts referenced in the 
Use Table as “C” provided that they comply with all applicable standards of the underlying 
zoning district, including any maximum height standards. If visible from Urban Residential or Rural 
Zoning Districts, attached telecommunications facilities shall be screened or painted to minimize 
their visibility from such areas. 
b. 
Telecommunications Facility Support Structures 
