CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-12 
Setback, Rear: A setback extending across the full width of the lot and lying between the rear lot line and the 
nearest line of the building. Rear setback depth shall be measured at right angles to the rear line of the lot. 
Setback, Side: A setback lying between the side lot line and the nearest point of the building and extending from 
the street setback to the rear setback, or in absence of either such street or rear setback, to the street or rear lot 
lines. Side setback width shall be measured at right angles to the side lines of the lot. 
Setback Line:  A line or lines within a property defining the minimum horizontal distance required between a 
building/structure and property line. 
Sidewalk:  A paved surface area usually paralleling and separate from the roadway, used as a pedestrian way. 
Sign: A structure or device designed or intended to convey information to the public in written or pictorial form. 
Sign Area:  The entire area within a continuous perimeter, enclosing the extreme limits of the sign display, including 
any frame or border. Curved, spherical, or any other shaped sign face shall be computed on the basis of actual 
surface area. The copy of signs composed of individual letters, numerals or other devices shall be the sum of the 
area of the smallest rectangle or other geometric figure encompassing each of said letter or devices. The 
calculation for a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face only. Double-faced signs shall be so constructed 
that the perimeter of both sign faces coincide and are parallel. 
Sign, Awning, Canopy, or Marquee: See Sign, Projecting. 
Sign, Digital or Electronic: Any sign that uses changing lights to form a sign message wherein the sequence of 
messages and the rate of change is electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic processes. 
Sign, Free-standing: A sign supported by one or more upright poles, columns, or braces placed in or on the ground 
and not attached to any building or structure. 
Sign, Identification:  Such signs shall refer only to the principal use of the lot upon which such signs are located. 
Sign, Illuminated:  A sign lit in any manner by an artificial light source. 
Sign, Monument:  A freestanding sign, generally lower in height and attached to the ground by means of a wide 
base of solid appearance. 
Sign, Off-premise: A sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or non-commercial message related to an 
activity conducted, a service rendered, or a commodity sold at a location other than where the sign is located. 
Sign, Portable: Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building, other unmovable structure or the ground. 
Sign, Projecting: Any sign other than a wall sign that is attached to and projects from the wall or face of a building 
or structure, including an arcade/awning/canopy/marquee sign. 
Sign, Roof: Any sign erected upon, against, or directly above a roof or roof eave, or on top or above a parapet, or 
on a functional architectural appendage above the roof or roof eave. 
Sign, Flush Wall: A sign painted on the outside of a building, or attached to, and erected parallel to the face of a 
building and supported throughout its length by such building. 
Sign, Window: A sign painted, stenciled or affixed on a window, which is visible from the right-of-way. 
Single-Family, Attached:  One of two or more residential buildings, each of which is located on a separate lot and 
is separated from the others by common fire-resistant walls. 
Single-Family, Detached:  A building containing one dwelling unit, designed to be occupied by one household, 
entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot. 
Site Plan:  A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurate and with complete dimensioning, the boundaries of a site 
and all other information required by these regulations. 
Skyline:  The visual line where the earth or vegetation and the sky seem to meet. 
Small Engine Repair: Means an engine that powers equipment such as: lawn mowers, tillers, cultivators, trimmers, 
snow blowers, chain saws, pumps, generators, air compressors, outboard boats, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, 
and ultra-light aircraft. 
Specified Anatomical Areas:  any of the following that are less than completely and opaquely covered: (a) human 
