CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-9 
Mineral Deposit: An area in which minerals are located in sufficient concentrations in veins, deposits, bodies, beds, 
seams, fields, pools or otherwise capable of economic recovery. 
Mining:  The withdrawal or refinement of materials including but not limited to: minerals (either solid, liquid, or gas 
which are usable in their natural form or converted to a usable form when extracted from the earth), sand, gravel, 
quarry aggregate, coal, dimension or landscape stone, peat and metals. Mining does not include surface or 
groundwater. 
Minor Entertainment Events:  Events such as weddings, reunions or other social or business gatherings scheduled and 
held as a business enterprise on a property in a rural zone district.  Activities may be held indoors and/or outdoors. 
Mixed Use District: The Mixed Use District accommodates mixed use buildings with local retail, service and other uses 
on the ground floor and residential uses in the upper stories.  The Mixed Use District also permits a mix of residential 
and retail/service uses in close proximity to each other.   
Multi Family:  A building containing three or more dwelling units, designed for occupancy by three or more 
households living independently of each other. All of the units are located on one lot under one ownership with 
accessory uses limited to common office, laundry and recreational facilities used by the occupants. Also called an 
apartment.  
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System: A conveyance or the system of conveyances, including roads with 
drainage systems, municipal streets, curbs, gutters, ditches, drainage inlets, catch basins, pipes, tunnel, culverts, 
channels, detention basins and ponds owned and operated by a municipality or county and designed or used for 
collecting or conveying stormwater that is not a combined sewer or used for collecting or conveying sanitary 
sewage.  
N/A: Not applicable 
National Register of Historic Places (National Register): The list of places significant in American history, architecture, 
archeology, engineering or culture on a national, state or local level, as designated by the Secretary of Interior.  
Places may be a building, site, structure, object or district. 
Neighborhood Association: Any group that has filed required registration forms and map and description of its 
boundaries with the Director. 
New Construction (Related to Floodplain Management): For the purpose of determining flood insurance rates, 
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM (Flood 
Insurance Rate Map) or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements 
to such structures.  For floodplain management purposes, “new construction” means structures for which the “start 
of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by 
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. 
No-Rise Certification: A record of the results of an engineering analysis conducted to determine whether a project 
will increase flood heights in a floodway. A No-Rise Certification must be supported by technical data and signed 
by a registered Colorado Professional Engineer. The supporting technical data should be based on the standard 
step-backwater computer model used to develop the 100-year floodway shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map 
(FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM). 
Noncontributing: A property within the boundaries of a Historic District that has had substantial alterations, is not of 
sufficient age, or is otherwise deemed not historic and does not add to the historic character, significance or 
architectural integrity of the Historic District.   
Nonresident Employee: Means an employee, business partner, co-owner, or other person affiliated with a home 
occupation, who does not live at the site but who reports to the site in person as part of the home occupation. 
Nuisance Conditions: Means “public nuisance” as defined by common and case law. 
Obstructions:  Any dam, wall, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, projection, excavation, channel 
rectification culvert, building, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter, in, along, across, or projecting into any 
drain way, channel, or watercourse, which might impede, retard or change the direction or flow of water, either 
by itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or which is placed where the 100-year flood may 
carry the debris downstream. 
Occupied:  The word “occupied” includes arranged, designed, built, altered, converted, rented or leased, or 
