CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-42 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-20: Summary of the Registration of Historic Places Procedure 
STEP
7
Board of County 
Commissioner 
Action
STEP
6
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Planning 
Commission
Review
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
E. 
Designation Criteria 
In order to be listed on the County Register of Historic Landmarks, buildings, structures, sites or objects must 
be at least fifty (50) years old. Contributing sites within a Historic District must be at least fifty (50) years old. 
Buildings, structures, sites, objects and districts less than fifty (50) years in age may be designated only if 
deemed to be of exceptional historical, architectural or cultural importance. 
1. 
Approval Criteria 
In designating a building, structure, site, object or district as a Historic Landmark, a finding shall be 
made that the designation satisfies one or more of the following criteria for historical, architectural or 
cultural significance: 
a. 
Represents a specific architectural style or period; 
b. 
Represents a unique example of a structure or building type;  
c. 
Represents an innovation in construction, materials, or design; 
d. 
Demonstrates superior craftsmanship or high artistic value;  
e. 
Is an example of the work of a master architect or builder;  
f. 
Represents the built environment of a group of people in an era of history;  
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
A property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Planning Commission shall act as a review agency and shall 
provide comments and recommendations to the Community 
Development Director. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Designation Criteria under Section 4.14 E. and shall prepare a 
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing and, 
at the close of the public hearing, act to approve, approve with 
conditions, or deny the application, based on the Designation Criteria 
of Section 4.14 E. 
