CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-6 
SECTION 10.05 | NONCONFORMING SIGNS  
A. 
Change of Copy; Repairs  
Change of copy or the substitution of panels or faces on nonconforming signs shall be permitted. Repairs 
and maintenance of nonconforming signs, such as repainting, electrical repairs, and neon tubing 
replacement shall be permitted.  Alterations to nonconforming signs that change the structure, character, 
or function of the sign shall not be permitted, except in accordance with Chapter 9 of this LDC. 
B. 
Discontinuance  
Any nonconforming sign that ceases being used for a continuous period of one (1) year or more shall not 
be reused for sign purposes until it is brought into full compliance with the standards of Chapter 9.  Any 
nonconforming sign that pertains to a business or institution that ceases operation for a period of one (1) 
year or more shall not be reused for sign purposes until it is brought into full compliance with the sign 
regulations of Chapter 9. 
SECTION 10.06 | NONCONFORMITIES CREATED BY PUBLIC ACTION  
When lot area or setbacks are reduced as a result of conveyance to a federal, state, or local government for a 
public purpose and the remaining area is at least seventy-five (75) percent of the required minimum standard for 
the district in which it is located, then that lot is deemed to be in compliance with the minimum lot size and setback 
standards of this LDC. 
SECTION 10.07 | CERTIFICATION OF NONCONFORMING STATUS  
Owners of nonconforming uses, structures, or signs may request a “Certificate of Legal Nonconforming Status” by 
filing an application with the Director in accordance with the “Written Interpretation” procedures of Section 4.21.  
The application shall be accompanied by documentation that establishes the approximate date that the use, 
structure, lot, or sign was established. The Director shall be authorized to require additional information if deemed 
necessary to permit an accurate determination. “Certificates of Legal Nonconforming Status” shall not be required. 
Once issued, a certificate shall be recorded with the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder, clearly identifying the land 
by parcel number and/or a legal description of the property.  The certificate shall “run with the land;” and its status 
shall not be affected by changes of tenancy, ownership, or management. 
