CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-43 
cost of design construction and construction administration) may be collected in lieu of improvement 
construction. The County may hold funds for up to seven (7) years, 
B. 
Use of Funds 
Fees paid pursuant to this Section shall be deposited in an escrow account held by the Mesa County 
Treasurer. Fees shall be expended by Mesa County only to construct the specific improvement for which 
the fee was collected. 
C. 
Credit Permitted Against Fee for Certain Off-Site Improvements 
Any development shall be allowed credit against any fees or funds due under this Section for actual costs 
of any public improvements constructed by the applicant for the development at the request of Mesa 
County, which are not on or directly adjacent to land owned by the applicant.  
D. 
Impact Fees  
All traffic-generating developments are subject to assessment and payment of a Transportation Impact 
Fee (TIF). Transportation Impact Fees are based on one or more studies commissioned and approved by 
the Board of County Commissioners. The TIF Regulation (MCM 2004-107) was adopted by the BOCC on 
June 7, 2004. All requirements of MCM 2004-107 and any amendments shall be implemented though this 
LDC. 
SECTION 8.22 | STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION PERMIT 
A. 
Purpose and Intent 
It is the purpose of these regulations: 
1. 
To protect and preserve surface water from pollutants associated with stormwater runoff. 
2. 
To meet the terms of the Colorado Department of Public Safety permit regulations. 
3. 
To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system from 
stormwater discharges; 
4. 
To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, observation, and monitoring procedures 
necessary to ensure compliance with the regulations of this Section; 
5. 
To promote public awareness of the hazards involved in the improper discharge of pollutants into the 
municipal separate storm sewer system; 
6. 
To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system by stormwater 
discharges from construction activity and development and to facilitate compliance with state and 
federal standards. 
7. 
To reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges from construction activity by guiding, regulating, and 
controlling the design, construction, use, and maintenance of any development or other activity that 
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land that results in a disturbance 
of greater than one (1) acre or is part of a larger common plan of development or sale; 
8. 
To require permanent stormwater quality runoff controls to be constructed along with development 
to prevent the deterioration of water quality; 
9. 
To establish provisions for the long-term responsibility for and maintenance of structural stormwater 
quality control facilities and nonstructural stormwater management practices to ensure that they 
continue to function as designed, are maintained, and do not threaten public safety. 
10. To establish timely and appropriate enforcement actions for violations of the regulations of this Section. 
B. 
Methods 
In order to accomplish their purposes and intent, the regulations of this Section include methods and 
provisions for: 
1. 
Requiring a Local Stormwater Construction Permit as identified in the Stormwater Management 
Manual, when applicable. 
2. 
Require the installation and maintenance of permanent stormwater quality runoff controls to be 
constructed along with development to prevent the deterioration of water quality as identified in the 
