CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-49 
Manual, as amended and the Stormwater Regulations in Section 8.22.  
A. 
The following activities are considered exempt: 
1. 
Land disturbance activities in areas where the topography would prohibit runoff from leaving the site 
or entering waters of the state. 
2. 
Agricultural and silviculture activities such as home gardening and tilling a field for weed control. 
3. 
Maintenance activities, such as re-grading a dirt road, re-landscaping a lawn, cleaning out roadside 
ditches, and other land disturbances that do not alter original line and grade, hydraulic capacity or 
original purpose. 
4. 
Re-paving a roadway, providing that underlying and/or surrounding soil is not cleared, graded, 
excavated or otherwise disturbed. 
5. 
Grading or an excavation below finished grade for basements, footings, retaining wall, or other 
structures provided the land disturbance is less than one (1) acre and are not part of a Larger Common 
Plan of Development or Sale. 
SECTION 4.20 | VACATION OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND RENAMING OF STREETS 
A. 
Applicability  
The procedures of this section shall apply to the vacation of any right-of-way providing access to property 
and to the renaming of streets. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-25 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of a Vacation of Rights-of-Way or 
Renaming of Streets application. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted 
below. 
Figure 4-25: Summary of the Vacation of Rights-of-Way or Renaming of Streets 
STEP
6
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.20 C. and shall prepare a 
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit application and, at the close of the 
public hearing, act to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the 
application, based on the Approval Criteria of Section 4.20 C. 
