CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-18 
B. 
Community Services  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Community Services are uses of a public, nonprofit, or charitable nature, generally providing a local 
service to people of the community. Generally, they provide the service on-site or have employees at 
the site on a regular basis. The service is ongoing, not just for special events. Community centers or 
facilities that have membership provisions are open to the general public to join at any time, (for 
instance, any senior citizen could join a senior center). The use may provide special counseling, 
education, or training of a public, nonprofit or charitable nature. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses may include offices; meeting areas; food preparation areas; parking, health and 
therapy areas; and athletic facilities. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include libraries, museums, senior centers, community centers, community gardens, publicly 
owned swimming pools, youth club facilities, hospices, social service facilities, temporary shelters, 
vocational training for persons with physical or mental disabilities, columbariums and mausoleums. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Private lodges, clubs and private or commercial athletic or health clubs are classified as 
Entertainment. Commercial museums are classified as Office and Personal Service. 
b. 
Parks are classified as Parks and Open Areas. 
c. 
Uses where tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month basis, or for a longer period are residential 
and are classified as Household or Group Living. 
C. 
Day Care  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Day Care uses provide care, protection and supervision for children or adults on a regular basis away 
from their primary residence for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. There are (3) three types of 
day care: 
a. 
Home-Based Day Care (Regular) 
 A home-based day care provides care protection and supervision for up to a certain number 
individuals established by the State of Colorado. 
b. 
Limited Day Care (Large) 
 A limited day care provides care protection and supervision for more individuals than a “Regular” 
facility up to a number individuals established by the State of Colorado. 
c. 
General Day Care 
 A general day care provides care protection and supervision for more individuals than a 
“Limited” facility. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses include offices, recreation areas and parking. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include preschools, nursery schools, latch key programs and adult day care programs. 
“Child Care Centers,” as defined in C.R.S. §26-6-102(1), are classified as “day care” uses under this 
LDC. 
4. 
Exceptions 
 Day Care does not include public or private schools or facilities operated in connection with an 
employment use, shopping center or other principal use, where children are cared for while parents 
