CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-27 
Waste-Related uses are characterized by uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from others for 
disposal on the site or for transfer to another location; uses that collect sanitary wastes; or uses that 
manufacture or produce goods or energy from the composting of organic material. Waste-Related 
uses also include uses that receive hazardous wastes from others. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses may include recycling of materials, offices and repackaging and transshipment of by-
products. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include sanitary landfills, tire disposal or recycling, waste composting, recycling processing 
facilities, incinerators, energy recovery plants, sewage treatment plants, brine disposal/storage and 
hazardous-waste-collection sites. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Disposal of dirt, concrete, asphalt and similar non-decomposable materials is considered fill. 
b. 
Recycling drop-off stations (no on-site processing) are basic utility uses. 
E. 
Wholesale Sales  
1. 
Characteristics 
Wholesale Sales firms are involved in the sale, lease, or rent of products primarily intended for industrial, 
institutional, or commercial businesses. The uses emphasize on-site sales or order taking and often 
include display areas. Businesses may or may not be open to the general public, but sales to the 
general public are limited. Products may be picked up on-site or delivered to the customer. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses may include offices, product repair, warehouses, parking, minor fabrication services 
and repackaging of goods. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include sale or rental of machinery, equipment, heavy trucks, building materials, special 
trade tools, welding supplies, machine parts, electrical supplies, janitorial supplies, restaurant 
equipment and store fixtures; mail order houses; and wholesalers of food, clothing, auto parts, building 
hardware. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Firms that engage primarily in sales to the general public or on a membership basis are classified 
as Retail Sales and Service. 
b. 
Firms that are primarily storing goods with little on-site business activity are classified as Warehouse 
and Freight Movement. 
SECTION 12.07 | OTHER USE CATEGORIES 
A. 
Agriculture  
1. 
Characteristics 
Agriculture includes activities that primarily involve raising, producing or keeping plants or   animals. 
Normal farming and ranching activities such as grazing and crop and orchard production are a use 
by right unless specifically identified in this LDC, as described in the Mesa County “Right to Farm and 
Ranch” policy. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses include dwellings for operators and employees of the use, animal training, retail and 
wholesale sales of products produced on-site, sorting and packaging of fruit and vegetables, “farmkill” 
of livestock, feed processing, equipment repair and maintenance; tasting rooms; vintner’s restaurants; 
produce stands; agritourism (in accordance with Section 5.a below) and other activities that are 
