CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-12 
permitted to be built with a lowest floor below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood 
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk from the reduced lowest floor elevation. 
E. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Floodplain Board of Appeals shall be made to the courts, as provided by law.  
SECTION 4.09 | LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENTS 
A. 
Applicability  
The Board of County Commissioners may consider amendments to the text of this LDC as may be required 
from time to time. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-6 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of LDC Amendment applications. 
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-6: Summary of Land Development Code Amendment Procedure 
STEP
5
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
5
Planning 
Commission
Action
STEP
3
STEP
2
Required 
Notice
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
1
Application 
Review
STEP
4
 
C. 
Corrections of Errors or Omissions  
If it is discovered that there is a minor typographic or scrivener error or omission, the Director shall record an 
Affidavit of Correction in the records of the Mesa County Clerk and Recorder to be incorporated into the 
LDC. The Director and the County Attorney shall verify the Affidavit to ensure that the meaning and intent 
of the text approved by recorded resolution are not altered.
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall prepare a written staff 
that includes a recommendation of the proposed amendment(s) or 
modification(s) to the Land Development Code. 
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and at the close 
of the public hearing shall forward a recommendation to the Board of 
County Commissioners of approval, approval with conditions, or denial 
of the application. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the 
proposed Conditional Use Permit application and, at the close of the 
public hearing, shall act to approve, approve with conditions, or deny 
the application. 
