CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-23 
B. 
Development Located Outside of Fire Protection District  
1. 
If a development that is subject to the terms of this Section is proposed in a location that is outside of 
the boundaries or service area of any fire protection district or volunteer fire department, then the 
development shall only be allowed if the applicant provides evidence that the property will be 
annexed to the applicable district, or that a service agreement has been entered into between the 
applicant and the applicable fire protection district or volunteer fire department. 
2. 
For existing platted properties, including lots therein which may be further subdivided In the event that 
neither inclusion in a fire district nor a service agreement is practicable, the Director may determine 
that sprinkling of all habitable structures in accordance with the International Fire Code is acceptable 
if all of the following is true or can be met: 
a. 
The development is for single-family detached residential structures; 
b. 
Each residential lot is at least one acre in size; 
c. 
Each residential structure shall be set back a minimum of fifty feet (50) from all property lines; 
d. 
Fire hydrants shall be installed in the development in accordance with the Land Use Code; 
e. 
Water supply for fire flows shall provide at least twenty (20) pounds per square inch residual and 
one thousand (1000) gallons per minute; 
f. 
There shall be recorded covenants, conditions and restrictions that prohibit brush, weeds, wood 
piles and similar combustible materials within thirty feet (30) of the outside of each structure; 
g. 
The covenants, conditions and restrictions shall also contain a provision that substantially provides 
notice that “The lots subject to these covenants, conditions and restrictions are NOT within a fire 
protection district, nor is there a contract with a fire protection district, to provide fire suppression 
on the properties subject to these covenants, conditions and restrictions.  
h. 
Final plats recorded after the effective date of this amendment shall also contain the statement 
described in g, above. 
i. 
The findings of a through e above, may be satisfied by the written statement of a licensed fire 
protection engineer.  
C. 
Water Supply Standards  
1. 
Fire Hydrants 
Fire hydrants shall be installed in any Subdivision or Planned Unit Development where dwellings will be 
separated by a distance of two hundred (200) feet or less, or in any commercial and industrial 
development, and shall comply with the following standards: 
a. 
Fire Flows 
Water supply shall comply with the standards adopted by the applicable fire protection district. 
In cases where the local fire authority has not adopted specific standards, water supply shall 
comply with the fire flow standards set out in the most recent edition of the Uniform Fire Code.  
b. 
Minimum Pipe Size 
The minimum pipe size serving the system shall be six (6) inches for development comprised solely 
of single-family and duplex dwellings, and eight (8) inches for all other development, unless the 
applicant submits evidence, prepared by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that 
the minimum fire flow requirements may be met with a six (6) inch line.  
c. 
Maximum Distance Between Hydrants 
The maximum distance between hydrants in all developments shall be five hundred (500) feet. 
d. 
Hydrant Locations 
Fire hydrants shall be located as specified by the responsible fire chief. Generally, fire hydrants 
shall be located in the public rights-of-way at road intersections. 
