CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-28 
2. 
Setbacks 
Accessory structures shall be subject to all setback requirements of the zoning district in which they 
are located Chapter 5 with the following exception: 
a. 
 Interior Side and Rear Setbacks 
Accessory structures that are less than sixteen (16) feet in height and contain less than two 
hundred (200) square feet of floor area shall be setback no less than three (3) feet when located 
within the required rear setback area. 
b. 
Easements 
Regardless of the above setbacks, accessory structures shall not be located over any recorded 
easement. 
3. 
Size 
Accessory structures shall be subordinate in size, extent, and purpose to the principal building or use. 
Accessory structures on properties in rural, RSF-R, and RSF-E zoning districts that are one (1) acre or 
greater in size are allowed to be larger than the size of the principal dwelling on the property.  
SECTION 6.04 | ACCESSORY USES 
Permitted uses and approved conditional uses shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are 
necessarily and customarily associated with, and appropriate, incidental, and subordinate to the principal uses 
allowed. Accessory uses and activities shall be subject to the same regulations as apply to principal uses in each 
district unless otherwise expressly stated. No accessory use shall be established on the subject parcel until after all 
required permits and approvals for the principal use, structure or activity have been obtained. 
A. 
Operation 
Accessory uses shall be maintained and conducted to avoid production of noise, vibration, concussion, 
dust, dirt, smoke, odors, noxious gases, fly ash, heat, glare from artificial illumination, or from reflection of 
natural light. 
B. 
Animals  
Unless otherwise expressly defined or identified as a principal use, the keeping of animals shall be 
considered an allowed accessory use subject to the provisions of this section. 
1. 
Household Pets   
Household pets inclusive of, but not limited to, dogs and cats shall be permitted in all zoning districts 
allowing for residential use, provided that no more than five (5) animals over four (4) months of age 
are kept by the occupant of any residential unit. This provision does not apply to tropical fish, small 
rodent animals (e.g., gerbils, hamsters), and small birds kept as pets, unless raised for commercial 
purposes, kept outdoors, or kept in an accessory structure. 
2. 
Prohibited Animals 
The keeping of nondomestic or exotic animals shall not be allowed as an accessory use. The keeping 
of nondomestic or exotic animals is considered Animal Care/Boarding/Sales and may be permitted 
in those zoning districts listed in Table 6-1 of this LDC. 
3. 
Domestic Livestock 
The keeping of domestic livestock shall be considered an accessory use and shall be measured in 
terms of animal units. 
a. 
Existing Properties in Urban Land Use Areas 
On properties designated for urban land uses on the adopted Future Land Use Plan Map, the 
keeping of domestic livestock may be allowed only on lots or parcels greater than one-half (1/2) 
acre in size except as provided for below in subsection (1).  
Domestic livestock pens, fenced corrals, round pens, turnout areas, buildings, or other confined 
areas for keeping domestic livestock shall be set back a minimum distance of fifty (50) feet from 
rear and side property lines when adjacent to an existing residential use unless physically 
