CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-2 
3. 
Determination of Nonconformity Status 
 The burden of establishing that a nonconformity lawfully exists shall be on the owner, not the County 
(Section 10.07). 
4. 
Maintenance 
 Normal 
maintenance 
required 
to 
keep 
nonconforming 
uses, 
nonconforming 
structures, 
nonconforming signs, and nonconforming lots in a safe condition shall be permitted, provided that no 
changes or expansion shall be made unless specifically allowed by this Chapter or allowed by law or 
ordinance. 
5. 
Change of Ownership, Tenancy, or Management  
 Changes of ownership, tenancy, or management of an existing nonconformity shall be permitted, 
and in such cases the nonconforming situation shall continue to be subject to the standards of this 
Chapter. 
6. 
Appeals 
The Director’s decisions regarding nonconformities as set forth in this Chapter may be appealed to 
the Board of Adjustment, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this LDC. 
SECTION 10.02 | NONCONFORMING USES 
Nonconforming uses shall be subject to the following standards. 
A. 
Nonresidential Uses 
1. 
Expansion 
In a nonresidential zone, on a parcel of land on which there exists an otherwise lawful nonconforming 
use, an existing structure and/or an outdoor operations/storage/display area may be expanded 
provided all other provisions of this LDC are met.  
a. 
A nonconforming nonresidential use shall not be expanded in any residential zoning district. 
b. 
Any expansion of a nonresidential use that is nonconforming with respect to parking, 
landscaping, screening/buffering or similar development standards shall be required to meet the 
requirements of this LDC as follows: 
(1) 
An increase less than twenty-five (25) percent of the existing structure shall not require any 
correction other than what may be required by fire and building codes or other applicable 
regulations.  This allowance shall only be permitted once.  All subsequent increases shall be 
subject to subsection 2. below. 
(2) 
For structures that are increased by twenty-five (25) percent or more, parking, landscaping 
and other requirements shall be provided proportionally for the increased area, as set forth 
in this LDC. 
2. 
Change of Use 
The Director may approve a different use, provided such use is deemed by the Director to be less 
intense and/or have fewer negative impacts on public health or safety than the existing use. Prior to 
approval, the Director shall consider traffic generation, parking, and screening requirements for the 
new nonconforming use. No change to a more intense nonconforming use is allowed.  
a. 
A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use subject to the processes identified 
in this LDC. 
3. 
Abandonment 
A nonresidential nonconforming use that has been discontinued for a period of one (1) year period 
for whatever reason shall be considered to be abandoned and shall not be reestablished. Any use on 
the property after that time shall conform to all provisions of this LDC. Evidence of intent to abandon 
is not required. 
