CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-33
3.
Approval Criteria
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be consistent with the General Approval Criteria under
Section 3.09 and the following has been met:
a.
Public facilities and services shall be available upon completion of the project to serve the subject
property while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing development;
b.
Access to a maintained public road shall meet Section 8.16 and Section 8.17 of this LDC; and
c.
Minimum lot frontage is not required if legal and approved access to a public road for all parcels
or lots resulting from the Rural Land Division is provided;
I.
Subdivision for Public Purposes
1.
Eligibility:
The lot must be used for a public purpose and the use must be permitted in the underlying zone district
as an Allowed or as a Conditional Use.
2.
Procedure
Figure 4-15 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Subdivision for Public Purpose
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-15: Summary of the Subdivision for Public Purposes Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
3.
Approval Criteria:
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be consistent with the General Approval Criteria under
Section 3.09 and the following shall be considered:
a.
Lots may be created with indirect access (no street frontage) depending on the proposed use.
Public uses that do not generate traffic may not require street frontage;
b.
Provision of potable water through service by a water district or a well permit may be required
for the new lot. Depending on the public purpose, and upon demonstration that no water use is
required, the application may be considered exempt from Section 8.09, Potable Water, in the
LDC;
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.10 I.3. The decision shall be 
in writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
