CHAPTER 1 | INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
1-3 
J. 
Conjunctions  
Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows: 
1. 
And indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or events apply; and 
2. 
Or indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions, or events apply. 
SECTION 1.08 | TENSES AND PLURALS  
Words used in one tense (past, present, or future) include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the 
contrary. The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular. 
SECTION 1.09 | CONFLICTING PROVISIONS 
A. 
Conflict with State or Federal Regulations  
If the provisions of this Land Development Code are inconsistent with those of the state or federal 
government, the more restrictive provision will control, to the extent permitted by law. 
B. 
Conflict with Other County Regulations  
If the provisions of this Land Development Code are inconsistent with one another, or if they conflict with 
provisions found in other adopted ordinances, resolutions, or regulations of the County, the more restrictive 
provision will control. 
C. 
Conflict with Private Agreements  
It is not the intent of this Land Development Code to interfere with, abrogate or annul any easement, 
covenant, deed restriction or other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this Land 
Development Code impose a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the provisions of 
this Land Development Code will control. If the provisions of a private agreement impose a greater 
restriction than this Land Development Code, the provisions of the private agreement will control. The 
County shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing private agreements. 
SECTION 1.10 | TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
A. 
Violations Continue  
Any violation of the previous Mesa County Land Development Code will continue to be a violation under 
this Land Development Code and be subject to penalties and enforcement under Chapter 11, unless the 
use, development, construction or other activity complies with the provisions of this Land Development 
Code. 
B. 
Nonconformities Under Prior Code  
Any legal nonconformity under the previous Mesa County Land Development Code will also be a legal 
nonconformity under this Land Development Code, as long as the situation that resulted in the legal 
nonconforming status under the previous Land Development Code continues to exist. If a legal 
nonconformity under the previous Land Development Code becomes conforming because of the 
adoption of this Land Development Code, then the situation will no longer be considered a nonconformity. 
C. 
Completion of Development  
1. 
Permit Issued Before January 1, 2020 
Any building, structure, or development for which a permit was issued before January 1, 2020 or for 
which any pre-application meeting was conducted under the old Code, may, at the applicant’s 
option, be completed in conformance with the issued permit and other applicable permits and 
conditions, even if such building, structure, or development does not fully comply with provisions of 
this Land Development Code. If construction is not commenced or completed according to the 
applicable permit terms, the Community Development Director may, for good cause shown, grant 
an extension of up to one (1) year for such construction under the terms of the previous Land 
Development Code. If the building or structure is not completed within the time allowed under the 
original permit or any extension granted, then the building, structure, or development may be 
