CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-15 
use. 
C. 
Considerations Used in Categorizing Principal Uses  
The following considerations shall be used to determine what category a use is in and whether the activities 
are to be considered principal or accessory uses: 
1. 
The actual or projected characteristics of the activity in relationship to the stated characteristics of 
each use category; 
2. 
The relative amount of site area or floor space and equipment devoted to the activity; 
3. 
Relative amounts of sales from each activity; 
4. 
The customer type for each activity; 
5. 
The relative number of employees in each activity; 
6. 
Hours of operation; 
7. 
Building and site arrangement; 
8. 
Vehicles used with the activity; 
9. 
The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the use; 
10. Signs; 
11. How the use advertises itself; and 
12. Whether the activity is likely to be found independent of the other activities on the site. 
D. 
Developments with Multiple Principal Uses  
When all principal uses of a development fall within one use category, the entire development is assigned 
to that use category. A development that contains a coffee shop, bookstore and bakery, for example, 
would be classified in the Retail Sales and Service category because all of the development’s principal 
uses are in that category. When the principal uses of a development fall within different use categories, 
each principal use is classified in the applicable category and each use is subject to all applicable 
regulations for that category. 
E. 
Accessory Uses  
Accessory uses are allowed by-right in conjunction with a principal use unless otherwise stated in the 
regulations. Also, unless otherwise stated, accessory uses are subject to the same regulations as the 
principal use. Common accessory uses are listed as examples in the use category descriptions. 
F. 
Use of Examples  
The “Examples” subsection of each use category lists common examples of uses included in the respective 
use category. The names of these sample uses are generic. They are based on common meanings and 
not on what a specific use may call itself. For example, a use that calls itself “Wholesale Warehouse” but 
that sells mostly to consumers, is included in the Retail Sales and Service category rather than the Wholesale 
Sales category. This is because the actual activity on the site matches the description of the Retail Sales 
and Service category. 
SECTION 12.03 | RESIDENTIAL USE CATEGORIES  
A. 
Group Living  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Group Living is characterized by the residential occupancy of a structure by a group of people who 
do not meet the definition of Household Living. Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer basis, and 
the size of the group may be larger than a family. Uses where tenancy may be arranged for a shorter 
period are not considered residential. They are considered to be a form of lodging (see the “Retail 
Sales and Service” and “Community Service” categories). Generally, Group Living structures have a 
common eating area for residents. The residents may receive care, training, or treatment, as long as 
