CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-17 
(1) 
A secure residential treatment center; 
(2) 
A shelter for homeless persons; and  
(3) 
A group home including persons assigned to such home in lieu of being sentenced to a 
correctional facility, or upon their release from a correctional facility. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
 Lodging where tenancy may be arranged for periods of less than thirty (30) days is to be 
considered a hotel or motel use and classified in the Retail Sales and Service category. 
b. 
Lodging where the residents meet the definition of Household and where tenancy is arranged 
on a month-to-month basis, or for a longer period is classified as Household Living. 
c. 
Facilities for people who are under judicial detainment and under the supervision of sworn officers 
are included in the Detention Facilities category. 
B. 
Household Living  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Household Living is characterized by the residential occupancy of a dwelling unit by a household. 
Tenancy is arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis. Uses where tenancy may be arranged for 
a shorter period are not considered residential. They are considered to be a form of transient lodging 
(Section 12.05 E.). 
2. 
Accessory uses 
 Accessory uses commonly associated with household living are recreational activities, raising of pets, 
gardens, personal storage buildings, hobbies, parking of the occupants’ vehicles, and accessory 
dwellings.  Home occupations and accessory dwellings are accessory uses that are subject to 
additional regulations of this LDC.  
3. 
Examples 
 Uses include living in single-family dwellings, duplexes, triplexes and other multi-dwelling structures, 
retirement center apartments, manufactured housing and other structures with self-contained 
dwelling units.  Agricultural labor housing and temporary employee housing, which are intended to 
house workers on or near the site, may include self-contained dwelling units or shared facilities.   
4. 
Exceptions 
 Lodging in a dwelling unit or where less than two thirds of the units are rented on a monthly or longer 
basis is considered a hotel or motel use and is classified in the Lodging category. 
SECTION 12.04 | INSTITUTIONAL AND CIVIC USE CATEGORIES 
A. 
Colleges and Vocational Schools  
1. 
Characteristics 
 This category includes colleges and other institutions of higher learning that offer courses of general 
or specialized study leading to a degree or professional certification. Colleges tend to be in campus-
like settings or on multiple blocks. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses include offices, housing for students, food service, laboratories, health and sports 
facilities, theaters, meeting areas, parking, maintenance facilities and support commercial uses. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include universities, colleges, community colleges, nursing and medical schools not 
accessory to a hospital, seminaries, and business, trade, technical and vocational schools. 
4. 
Exceptions 
 Martial arts, dance and music studios are classified as Office and Personal Service. 
