CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-41 
improvement plans and any other evidence, comments or recommendations submitted by the 
School Districts and the public in making such determination. 
c. 
The SLD Fee shall then be set, by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners, in accordance 
with the following formula: 
Cost per Acre of Suitable 
School Lands within 
each School District 
× 
Student Generation 
Fee Factor of .023 
= 
SLD Fee Per 
Dwelling Unit 
Figure 8-4: School Land Dedication Fee 
[For example, if the average cost of Suitable School Lands is $15,000 per acre, the SLD Fee per 
Dwelling Unit would $15,000 X .023, or $345.] See Section 8.20 B.2. above for determination of 
factor. 
The student generation fee factor may also be modified at the hearing, provided that either the 
subject School District gives notice to the Board of County Commissioners that it requests such a 
modification at least thirty (30) days prior to the hearing, or the Board adopts a motion providing 
for consideration of a modification of said fee factor, and its hearing notice to the subject School 
District pursuant to this subsection. Said hearing shall consider the School District’s school facilities 
plan currently in place, the methodology and data supporting the proposed modification, and 
any evidence, comments or recommendations submitted by the County Planning Department, 
the subject School District and interested members of the public. 
3. 
Payment of School Land Dedication Fee 
a. 
No building permit shall be issued for a dwelling unit or a multi-family dwelling structure that is or 
contains one or more dwelling units, until the SLD fee in effect at the time the permit is applied 
for has been paid. 
b. 
Nothing in this Section shall preclude a holder of a Development Permit for a Residential 
Development or Mixed Use Development containing a Residential Development component 
from pre-paying the SLD fees to become due under this Section for one or more Dwellings, 
Multiple-Family Dwellings or Multi-Family Dwellings to be constructed in such development. Such 
prepayment shall be made upon the filing of a final plat for a platted Residential Development, 
at the SLD fee rate then in effect and in the amount which would have been due had a building 
permit application for such dwellings been pending at the time of prepayment. A subsequent 
building permit for a Dwelling, Multiple-Family Dwelling or Multi-Family Dwelling that is, or contains, 
one or more Dwelling Units for which the SLD fees have been prepaid shall be issued without 
payment of any additional SLD fees. However, if such permit would allow additional Dwelling 
Units for which SLD fees have not been prepaid, the permit shall not be issued until the SLD fees 
for the additional Dwelling Units have been paid at the rate per Dwelling Unit in effect at the time 
the building permit application was made.  
c. 
Any prepayment of SLD fees in accordance with this Section shall be documented by a 
Memorandum of Prepayment that contains the following minimum components: 
(1) 
The legal description of the real property subject to Residential Development for which an 
SLD fee is being prepaid; 
(2) 
A description of the development permit issued concerning such real property, and a 
detailed statement of the SLD fees being prepaid; 
(3) 
The notarized signatures of the owners of record or their duly authorized agents; and 
(4) 
The notarized signature of the County Administrator, indicating approval of the prepayment 
plan.  
4. 
Exemptions 
The following shall be exempted from payment of SLD fee: 
a. 
Alterations or expansion of existing buildings except where the use is changed from nonresidential 
to residential and except where additional Dwelling Units result; 
