CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-15 
Telecommunications facility support structures shall not be subject to the maximum height 
standards of the underlying zoning district, but shall be subject to any height restriction imposed 
at the time of approval of the applicable Conditional Use Permit. In no case shall the maximum 
height of a telecommunications facility support structure exceed the height necessary to ensure 
effective telecommunications service within the relevant market area. All telecommunications 
facility support structures shall be screened or painted to minimize their visibility. 
4. 
Urban Planning Areas 
a. 
Purpose   
The purpose of this section is to regulate the placement, construction and modification of towers 
and/or telecommunications facilities in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the 
public, while at the same time not unreasonably interfering with the development of competitive 
wireless telecommunications. 
b. 
Application    
No telecommunications facilities or towers shall be altered, added to, installed or permitted 
without an approved Site Plan or Conditional Use Permit for the property and the facility or tower. 
c. 
Exemptions   
This section does not apply to amateur radio equipment, as licensed by the FCC, that is less than 
ten (10) feet tall measured from grade, or ten (10) feet higher than the highest point of the roof.      
d. 
Telecommunications Facilities (TF) and Tower (T) Review.    
No application shall be approved until the applicant establishes, to the satisfaction of the 
decision maker, that the following are satisfied: 
(1) 
Towers and telecommunications facilities shall be located to minimize any visual and other 
adverse impact to the neighborhood, especially residential areas and land uses.  If the 
proposed location is on leased property, proof of possession is required.  
(2) 
Telecommunications facilities and towers shall be set back from all residentially zoned or 
used property by a minimum of two hundred (200) feet, or two hundred (200) percent of the 
height of the proposed tower or facility, whichever is greater. Setback requirements shall be 
measured from the outside perimeter of the base of the tower, and every other vertical 
component of the TF or T higher than ten (10) feet, to any portion of the other property.  If 
notice to the affected property owner is given, the decision maker may reduce any such 
setback by up to twenty-five (25) percent if such reduction will allow a tower to be located 
so that the visual impact on the neighborhood is reduced.  For example, a setback could 
be reduced to allow a tower to be located next to trees in order to partially shield the tower 
from view.  
(3) 
All Telecommunication facilities and towers shall be set back a minimum of eighty-five (85) 
feet from the property line or at a 2:1 ratio (two (2) foot of setback for every foot of tower 
height from the property boundary of the facility) whichever is greater, from non-residentially 
zoned or used property. 
(4) 
All Telecommunications facilities and towers on public utility structures, facilities, or property 
shall be exempt from the 2:1 setback requirement if they are no taller than the existing utility 
structure in said location and if approved by the Decision Maker. 
(a) Monopole tower structures shall be separated from all other towers, whether 
monopole, self-supporting lattice or guyed, by a minimum of seven hundred and fifty 
(750) feet.  
(b) Self-supporting lattice or guyed towers shall be separated from all other self-
supporting lattice or guyed towers by a minimum of one thousand five hundred 
(1,500) feet.  
(c) Shared use/co-location of wireless communication facilities on existing structures, 
