CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-11 
Public Improvement: Any improvement, facility or service together with its associated public site, right-of-way or 
easement necessary to provide transportation, drainage, public private utilities, parks or recreational, energy or 
similar essential services. 
Public Purpose: A municipal, quasi-municipal (Public Improvement Districts, Title 32 & 37 districts, etc.) or 
governmental use established primarily for the benefit and service of the population of the community in which it is 
located. Private utilities, for-profit entities, non-profit organizations, cooperatives, and other organizations that 
provide a benefit or service similar to a publicly owned entity may also be considered a Public Purpose.  This can 
include by way of example but not limited to, a fire or police department substation; dedication of land to public 
ownership for multi-modal transportation facility construction (such as trails); recreation and open space; public 
education; utilities; telecommunication facilities; irrigation and drainage facilities; or uses that provide a 
governmental function, activity or service for public benefit.   
Reclamation:  The employment, during and after, an open mining operation of procedures reasonably designed to 
minimize as much as practicable and disruptive from the open mining operation and to provide for the 
rehabilitation of any such surface resources adversely affected by such opening operations through the 
rehabilitation of plant cover, soil stability, water resources and other measures appropriate to the subsequent 
beneficial use of such mined and reclaimed lands. 
Reclamation, Final: That part of mined land reclamation that occurs after the mining activity ceases and completes 
the reclamation effort. 
Recreational Vehicle:  A motor home, travel or camping trailer, van or truck camper, with or without self-motive 
power, boat, jet ski, motorcycle, or all-terrain vehicle. 
Registered Neighborhood Association: Any organization representing or purporting to represent a defined 
geographic region of the County and that has registered with the Director on forms available in the County Planning 
Office. 
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation:  An elevation equal to the elevation level of the projected water surface 
during a 100-year flood. 
Residential Occupied Structure: See Building, Principle see also Dwelling Unit. 
Re-subdivision:  A change in lot boundaries in a previously platted subdivision. 
Review Body:  the entity (County department head, board or commission) that is authorized to recommend 
approval or denial of an application or permit required under this LDC. 
Rights-of-way (Easement):  A strip of land, either public or private, recorded or apparent, for which rights of use exist. 
Rights-of-way (Street):  A strip of land dedicated by a recorded plat to the public, or a warranty deed with a 
qualifying statement, for which the interest is fee simple ownership. 
Road: See Street 
Rural Community: An area designated as a “Rural Community” in the Mesa County Master Plan. 
Rural Planning Area:  A rural area or a countryside is a geographic area that is located outside towns and cities. 
Typical rural areas have a low population density and small settlements. Agricultural areas and areas with forestry 
typically are described as rural (AF35, AFT, URR & RSF-E zoning districts). 
SLD:  School Land Dedication  
SLD Fee:  The fee in lieu of school land dedication imposed pursuant to this LDC. 
Satellite Dish:  An antenna, consisting of radiation element(s) that transmit or receive radiation signals, that is 
supported by a structure with or without a reflective component to the radiating dish, usually circular in shape with 
a parabolic curve design constructed of a solid or open mesh surface and intended for transmitting or receiving 
television, radio, microwave signals or other electromagnetic waves to or from earth satellites. 
Setback:  An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed 
by any portion of a structure from the ground upward except as otherwise expressly stated. 
Setback, Street (see also Lot Line, Street):  A setback extending along the full width of a street lot line between side 
lot lines and from the street lot line to the building line in depth. 
