CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-9 
b. 
One (1) mile of an existing public or private school (not including dwellings where children are 
home-schooled); 
c. 
One-half (1/2) mile of any existing municipal boundary; 
d. 
One-quarter (1/4) mile of any existing water well currently used for domestic purposes; 
e. 
Two hundred (200) feet of a perennial stream and one hundred (100) feet from an existing 
drainage ditch owned and maintained by a governmental or quasi-governmental agency; and 
f. 
As determined due to topography and other anticipated impacts on adjacent properties at the 
time a Conditional Use Permit is issued, but not less than fifty (50) feet from any property boundary.  
2. 
Design, Operational, and Animal Waste Management Requirements 
An applicant for a confined animal feeding operation, animal waste collection system, or animal 
waste treatment facility shall demonstrate that:  
a. 
All runoff retention and containment facilities shall meet and be maintained in accordance with 
the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment’s Confined Animal Feeding 
Operation Control Regulations (5 CCR 1002-81), and the property owner shall be responsible for 
any additional requirements issued by the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment, Water Quality Control Division, or the Mesa County Health Department; and all uses 
on the property shall comply with the Colorado Air Quality Commission’s air quality regulations; 
and 
b. 
Best management practices shall be used to control rodents and insects; odors from all aspects 
of the operation; fugitive dust; and liquid, solid and animal wastes to avoid nuisances. In addition, 
at all times, all equipment and areas of the property shall be constructed and maintained, and 
adequate means for scraping, grading and clearing the property shall be provided to prevent 
nuisance conditions. 
3. 
Agricultural Advisory Panel Review 
Applications for a Conditional Use Permit for a confined animal feeding operation, animal waste 
collection system, or animal waste treatment facility shall be reviewed by the Mesa County 
Agricultural Advisory Panel for their recommendations regarding the proposed facility and its 
compliance with the Right to Farm and Ranch policy described in Section 1.06. 
H. 
Drive-Through Facilities  
Drive-through facilities shall be considered accessory to the principal use and shall be permitted through 
the same process as the principal use, subject to the following standards: 
1. 
The requirements of Section 8.01 G., Stacking Spaces for Drive-Through, shall be met; 
2. 
The drive-through, including order boards and stacking areas, shall be screened from non-commercial 
uses, utilizing a combination of fences or walls and landscaping; 
3. 
Illumination of reader boards and other drive-through specific lighting shall be turned off when the 
drive-through is not open; and 
4. 
Site circulation shall be designed to minimize conflicts with vehicular traffic and pedestrian movement. 
I. 
Flea Markets  
All flea markets are considered General Retail Sales, indoor or outdoor operations, and shall be subject to 
the standards listed below: 
1. 
No booths, stalls or other display areas shall be placed or maintained within any required setback. 
2. 
Sanitary facilities shall be provided on site. 
3. 
All items for sale shall be stored indoors (or within an approved screened storage area), or removed 
from the site at the close of each business day.  
4. 
Flea markets shall not be open for business in excess of sixteen (16) hours per day. 
