CHAPTER 3 | GENERAL REVIEW PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
3-6 
SECTION 3.03 | FINAL DECISION 
A. 
Conditions of Approval  
1. 
In approving development applications, the Decision-Making Body shall be authorized to impose such 
conditions as may be necessary to carry out the general purpose and intent of this LDC. Any 
discretionary conditions imposed on a development approval shall be based upon duly adopted 
standards that are:  
a. 
Contained in this LDC, the Mesa County Master Plan, or another document adopted by the 
County; and  
b. 
Sufficiently specific to ensure that the condition is imposed in a rational and consistent manner.  
2. 
Any condition imposed on a development approval that would require the applicant to dedicate 
real property to the public, or to pay money to the public in an amount that is determined on an 
individual and discretionary basis, shall only be imposed if:  
a. 
There is an essential nexus between the dedication or payment and a legitimate local 
governmental interest; and  
b. 
The dedication or payment is roughly proportional both in nature and extent to the impact of the 
proposed use or development of such property. If the required amount of land dedications or 
fees in lieu have been established by a formula applicable to one (1) or more classes of land, 
rather than on an individual and discretionary basis, the foregoing sentence shall not apply to 
requirements for park or school land dedications, or fees in lieu of such dedications, as set forth 
in Section 8.20 of this LDC, or to any other land dedication or fee in lieu of requirements adopted 
by the County.  
SECTION 3.04 | CONTINUATION OF APPLICATIONS 
A public hearing for which proper notice was given may be continued to a later date without again complying 
with the notice requirements of this LDC, provided that the continuance is set for a date within forty (40) days, and 
the date and time of the continued hearing is announced at the time of the continuance.  
SECTION 3.05 | APPEALS  
A. 
Administrative Decision 
Appeals of an administrative decision must be filed within thirty (30) days of the decision.  
B. 
Board of Adjustment Decision 
 Appeals of decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be made to the courts, as provided by law. 
C. 
Floodplain Board of Appeals Decision 
 Appeals of decisions of the Floodplain Board of Appeals shall be made to the courts, as provided by law. 
D. 
Board of County Commissioner Decision 
 Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided by 
law. 
E. 
Standing to Appeal 
Any appeals to actions taken under this LDC may only be made to the Colorado Courts as allowed by 
Colorado law.  The standing of any party to pursue such an appeal is only to the extent allowed by 
Colorado law. 
Any other appeal contemplated in this LDC, besides those filed in Colorado Court proceedings, standing 
may only exist to those persons who are "Parties of Record," who shall be deemed to include the following: 
1. 
The applicant;  
2. 
The property owner or holder of any interest or easement in the subject property; or  
