CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-20 
less than one (1) mile from the centerline of US Interstate 70, US Highway 6 or US Highway 50, or 
Colorado State Highways 65, 139, 141, 330, or 340, and so that any portion of their roof line (excluding 
chimneys and antennas) is visible against the skyline when viewed from the centerlines of the listed 
highways, shall conform to the standards set forth below. 
a. 
To the maximum extent feasible, predominant exterior wall colors and roof surfacing materials 
shall repeat the colors found most commonly in the land and vegetation around the building, 
including browns, tans, maroons, dark greens, whites, and grays. Bright colors that contrast 
dramatically with the colors of the land and vegetation around them shall not be used as 
predominant colors on any wall or roof surface visible from the centerlines of the listed highways. 
b. 
When viewed from the closest centerline point on a listed highway, the shape of the roofline shall 
taper down on each end in order to reduce the apparent discontinuity between the end of 
roofline and the ridge line of the surrounding terrain against the sky. 
c. 
To the maximum extent feasible, native vegetation and trees shall be planted within forty (40) 
feet of the building and visible from the closest centerline point on a listed highway. 
E. 
Grading  
1. 
No site grading for development shall occur before approval is granted by the Director. 
2. 
New development shall not alter natural watercourses/drainages except in compliance with the Mesa 
County Floodplain Regulations (Section 8.14) and the Mesa County Storm Water Management 
Manual. 
3. 
Driveways and access roads shall follow the natural contours of the site, so as to minimize the need for 
significant grading, and shall be located behind existing land forms and vegetation so as to minimize 
visibility from nearby roads. 
4. 
When grading for new construction, water shall not be added to the top of a slope, weight shall not 
be added to the top of slopes over ten (10) percent slope, and existing slope grades shall not be 
steepened over ten (10) percent slope. 
F. 
Nighttime Light Pollution  
All light sources that are located outside of a building shall conform to the standards set forth below; 
however, all agricultural uses are exempt from these standards: 
1. 
Floodlights shall not be used to light all or any portion of any building facade between the hours of 
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. 
2. 
No outdoor light sources shall be mounted more than thirty-five (35) feet above the ground. 
3. 
All outdoor light sources mounted on poles, buildings, or trees to illuminate streets, sidewalks, parking 
lots, or other outdoor areas between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall use full cutoff light 
fixtures. 
G. 
Protection of Agricultural Lands 
1. 
Land Development applications shall demonstrate that existing, adjacent agricultural operations will 
not be limited or adversely impacted by the development. Where residential development (this term, 
as applied in this Section of the Land Development Code, excludes applications for individual single-
family dwellings, duplexes and accessory structures) is proposed adjacent to existing agricultural 
operations, the following criteria shall apply: 
a. 
The Right to Farm Act notice shall be placed on the recorded plat and/or site plan; 
b. 
Subdivision covenants shall be recorded requiring dogs and other household pets be controlled 
and not allowed to interfere with domestic livestock operations in the area; and 
c. 
Subdivision covenants shall be recorded stating that subdivision perimeter fences and walls shall 
be maintained and any breaks in fences shall be repaired within seventy-two (72) hours. 
2. 
Separation of New Residential Development from Existing Domestic Livestock Enclosures  
