CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-2 
land and buildings, together with all appurtenances necessary or convenient thereto for the accommodation or 
convenience of the public, whether or not the members of the public so accommodated are directly or indirectly 
engaged in transportation by air, including, but not limited to, parking, dining, recreational, and hotel facilities. 
Airport Environs:  The geographic area that is affected by the airport air traffic operations and defined on the basis 
of those lands immediately affected by the 65 Ldn and greater noise exposure area from the Airport Environs 
Overlay Maps. For purposes of conveyance of avigation easements, the airport environs shall also include the area 
identified as the Airport Area of Influence (Subdistrict A). 
Amateur Radio:  Radio communications, which are licensed or regulated as such by the Federal Communications 
Commission. 
Animal - Nondomestic: An animal not normally adapted to live and breed in a tame condition (see Animal - Exotic). 
Animal Confinement: Any building, corral, pen or other enclosure used for the feeding or care of 20 to 1,000 animal 
units. Any sorting pens, alleyways, milking parlors, shelters, scales, or other equipment and buildings directly related 
to the operation shall be considered accessory uses to the animal confinement. 
Animal - Exotic:  An animal introduced from another country not normally kept as a household pet or farm animal. 
Animal - Household Pet:  A small animal customarily permitted to be kept in a dwelling for company or pleasure, 
including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, pot-bellied pigs, gerbils, hamsters, tropical fish, or common house birds, 
provided that such animals are not kept to supplement food supplies or for any commercial purpose. A limit of one 
litter, brood, or offspring is permitted, per household, per year. 
Animal Unit:  A unit of measurement used to determine the animal capacity of an animal-feeding operation 
containing one or more species of animals.  
Animal Waste Collection System:  A system, including pipelines, conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all 
other construction, devices, appurtenances, and facilities, used for collecting or conducting wastes to an ultimate 
point for treatment or disposal. 
Animal Waste Treatment Facility:  An animal waste receiving facility designed to digest or alter animal waste either 
mechanically or biologically.  
Antenna:  Any device designed and intended for transmitting or receiving television, radio, microwave signals, or 
other electromagnetic waves.  An antenna includes all mounting and stabilizing items such as a tower, a pole, a 
bracket, guy wires, hardware, connection equipment and related items. 
Antenna Array:  One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for the transmission or reception of radio 
frequency signals, which may include omni-directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic 
antenna (disc). It does not include a “telecommunications support structure.”  
Apartment: (see Dwelling, Multiple-Family) 
Area of shallow flooding:  A designated AH or AO zone with a one (1) percent or greater annual chance of flooding 
to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding 
is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.  Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow. 
Avigation Easement: An avigation easement limits construction and heights of vegetation, and grants the right of 
flight over the surface together with the right, subject to the applicable local, state, and federal laws (such as noise 
pollution laws) to cause noise, vibrations, smoke, fumes, glare, dust, fuel particles, and other effects of aircraft 
operations. 
Base Flood:  The flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. 
Basement: That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade. 
Bed and Breakfast: A facility of residential character that provides sleeping accommodations and breakfast for hire 
on a day-to-day basis in which the proprietor resides. 
Behind-the-meter: Means an energy resource that is interconnected on the property owner’s side of the utility meter 
providing electric energy primarily to serve the property owner’s loads. 
Best Management Practices (BMP): Practical activities, procedures, or practices necessary for achieving minimum 
compliance with appropriate standards (e.g., air quality, odor, water quality, etc.).  
