CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
10-1 
CHAPTER 10 | NONCONFORMITIES 
SECTION 10.01 | GENERAL 
A. 
Purpose  
The purpose of this Chapter is to regulate uses, structures, improvements, lots, and other current 
circumstances that came into being lawfully but that do not conform to one or more requirements of this 
LDC. 
B. 
Nonconformities Regulated  
The regulations of this Chapter address the following types of situations, all of which are collectively referred 
to as nonconformities. 
1. 
Nonconforming Uses 
 A “nonconforming use” is one that was legally established but which no longer complies with the use 
regulations that apply within the zoning district in which the use is located.  
a. 
A use that was legally established without a Conditional Use Permit shall be deemed to have a 
Conditional Use Permit and shall not be deemed nonconforming solely because a Conditional 
Use Permit is now required for the use. 
2. 
Nonconforming Structures 
 A “nonconforming structure” is a building, improvement, and/or structure, not including signs, that was 
legally established but which no longer complies with the dimensional or development standards that 
apply within the zoning district in which the building, improvement, or structure is located. 
3. 
Nonconforming Signs 
 A “nonconforming sign” is one that was legally established but which no longer complies with the sign 
regulations of Chapter 9. 
4. 
Nonconforming Lots 
 A nonconforming lot is a tract of land, designated on a duly recorded plat, or by a duly recorded 
deed, or by other lawful means, that complied with the lot area, lot width, and other dimensional 
standards of the zoning district in which it was located at the time of its creation, but that does not 
comply with the minimum lot area, minimum width or other dimensional requirement of the zoning 
district in which it is now located. 
C. 
Policies  
1. 
Nonconforming Uses, Structures, Signs and Lots 
a. 
 It is the general policy of the County to allow uses, structures, signs, and lots that came into 
existence legally and in conformance with then-applicable requirements and do not have a 
negative impact on public health or safety, but that do not conform to all of the applicable 
requirements of this LDC, to continue to exist and be put to productive use while bringing as many 
aspects of the use or structure into conformance with the LDC as is reasonably practicable, all 
subject to the limitations of this Chapter. The limitations of this Chapter are intended to recognize 
the interests of the property owner in continuing to use the property in a safe and beneficial 
manner and allow changes and modifications to specified nonconformities, while working to 
reduce or eliminate nonconformities that may be detrimental to the public welfare.  
b. 
Property owners shall be encouraged to pursue all remedies available within this LDC, including 
but not limited to Administrative Adjustments, Rezoning, Variances, or Subdivision in order to 
reduce or eliminate nonconformities. 
2. 
Authority to Continue 
 Nonconformities shall be allowed to continue in accordance with the regulations of this Chapter. 
