CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-8 
SECTION 5.05 | SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS  
A. 
Planned Unit Development District (PUD) 
The Planned Unit Development District is intended to encourage innovative land planning and site design 
concepts that implement and are in general conformity with the Mesa County Master Plan. 
1. 
Developer's Statement of Intent 
Each Outline Development Plan application shall contain a statement describing how the proposed 
development departs from the otherwise applicable standards of this LDC, and how the proposed 
development, on balance, is an improvement over what would be required under otherwise 
applicable standards. 
2. 
Review and Approval Procedures 
PUDs shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures of Section 4.12. 
3. 
Use Regulations 
The Board of County Commissioners shall determine the types of uses allowed within a PUD at the time 
of Outline Development Plan approval. Only uses that are in general conformity with the Mesa County 
Master Plan pursuant to C.R.S. §24-67-104, may be allowed within a PUD, and should generally be 
limited to uses allowed in the underlying Zoning District. 
4. 
Development Intensity 
The total number of dwelling units and level of nonresidential development allowed within a PUD shall 
be in general conformity with the Mesa County Master Plan pursuant to C.R.S. §24-67-104, and shall 
not exceed the level that can be adequately served by public facilities. The Director may require a 
traffic impact study or other infrastructure capacity analysis to provide information on the 
development's expected impacts on existing and planned facilities. 
5. 
Other Standards 
Otherwise applicable standards of this LDC may be modified by the Board of County Commissioners 
as part of the approval of a PUD, if modifications are in general conformity with the Mesa County 
Master Plan pursuant to C.R.S. §24-67-104, and if the development is found to be an improvement 
over what would be required under otherwise applicable standards. 
B. 
Orchard Mesa Open Land Overlay District (OL) 
1. 
Purpose 
The Orchard Mesa Open Land Overlay District is intended to encourage preservation of open space, 
sensitive natural areas, irrigated agricultural lands and the rural character. 
2. 
Orchard Mesa Open Land Overlay District 
Orchard Mesa Open Land Overlay District referred to in this LDC is on file at the Public Works 
Department. The Orchard Mesa Open Land Overlay District is incorporated by this reference as if fully 
set forth.  
3. 
Relationship to Underlying Zoning 
Property owners shall have the option of developing in accordance with the underlying zoning or with 
the OL District standards of this section.  
4. 
Standards 
a. 
The OL Overlay District is applicable only to tracts of land ten (10) acres or larger in size. 
b. 
Developments that use the OL Overlay District standards shall be required to retain a minimum of 
fifty percent (50) of the development tract in open land, and group dwellings in clusters. 
c. 
A maximum density of one (1) dwelling unit per two and a half (2.5) gross acres is allowed. 
d. 
Permitted uses of the open land shall be determined by the Board of County Commissioners and 
