CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-13 
TABLE 8-7: BUFFER, LANDSCAPE STRIP, & SCREENING REQUIREMENTS 
Proposed Use  
Adjacent Use 
Baseline Requirements 
Exceptions & Notes 
Residential Subdivision 
Street or Right-
of-Way 
Where rear and side lots abut 
street frontage: ten (10) foot 
wide landscape strip  with trees 
and shrubs and six (6) foot 
fence or wall. 
Single-family and duplexes are 
exempt from any landscape 
requirement. In addition, 
subdivisions in rural zones and 
subdivisions zoned URR, RSF-R and 
RSF-E are exempt from the 
requirements of this Section. 
Industrial or High Impact 
Commercial  
Residential or 
Institutional 
Fifteen (15) foot wide 
landscape strip with trees and 
shrubs and six (6) foot fence or 
wall. 
If lower intensity property is 
developed last, the fifteen (15) 
foot buffer is waived but the 
structural screen must be built.  
Multi-story Multi-family 
Residential  
Single-Family  
Six (6) foot fence or wall. 
 
Low Impact Commercial  
Residential or 
Institutional 
Six (6) foot wide landscape strip 
with trees and shrubs and six (6) 
foot fence or wall. 
If lower intensity property is 
developed last, the six (6) foot 
buffer is waived but the structural 
screen must be built. 
Outdoor storage  
Residential, or 
Institutional 
Fifteen (15) foot wide 
landscape strip with trees and 
shrubs and six (6) foot fence or 
wall. 
If lower intensity property is 
developed last, the fifteen (15) 
foot buffer is waived but the 
structural screen must be built. 
1. 
When an existing fence or wall substantially meets the requirements of this Section an additional fence 
on the adjacent developing property shall not be required. Fences or walls required by this Section 
must meet the following: 
a. 
Solid opaque wood or material with a similar appearance, finished on both sides.  
b. 
A wall must have a column or other significant architectural feature every thirty (30) feet of length. 
c. 
No person shall construct or maintain a fence or a wall without first obtaining a building permit 
from the Building Department. 
d. 
Berms.  
A berm with landscaping is an alternative for a required fence or wall if the total height is a 
minimum of six (6) feet. Minimum requirements for berms are as follows: 
(1) 
Maximum slope of 4:1 for turf areas and 3:1 for shrub beds; and 
(2) 
 To control erosion and dust, berm slopes must be stabilized with vegetation or by other 
means consistent with the requirements for the particular landscape area. 
SECTION 8.03 | FENCES 
Any fence or wall that exceeds seven (7) feet in height shall be considered a structure requiring a planning 
clearance and building permit.  
A. 
Fence Height Measurement 
1. 
The height of fences shall be determined by measurement from the ground level upon which the 
fence is located. Grade shall not be altered for the sole purpose of increasing fence height.  
2. 
Pillars or other support structures for a fence shall be allowed to exceed the maximum fence height 
by up to one (1) foot at intervals no closer than eight feet. 
B. 
Fence Materials 
1. 
Acceptable materials include wire, wrought iron, plastic, wood and other materials with a similar look.  
2. 
Unacceptable materials that are visible include glass, bottles, cans machinery parts or appliances, 
tires, razor wire and concertina wire, or unconventional salvaged materials or similar materials. Electric 
fencing shall be allowed to contain large animals.  
