CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-43 
g. 
Is associated with a significant historic event; 
h. 
Is associated with a notable person or the work of a notable person; 
i. 
Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, or social heritage of the community, region, state or 
nation;  
j. 
Is an established and familiar natural setting or visual feature of the County; and/or 
k. 
Has the potential to make an important contribution to the knowledge of the area’s history or 
pre-history. 
2. 
Physical Integrity 
Each property shall also be evaluated based on physical integrity using one or more of the following 
criteria:  
a. 
Retains original design features, materials and/or character;  
b. 
Is in the original location or in the same historic context if it has been moved; or  
c. 
Has been accurately reconstructed or restored.  
3. 
Historic Districts 
a. 
For the purposes of this Section, a Historic District is a geographically definable area including a 
concentration, linkage or continuity of buildings, structures, sites and/or objects. A Historic District 
is related by a pattern of either physical elements or social and cultural activities.  
b. 
Significance is determined by applying the criteria of Section 4.14 E.1., above, to the pattern and 
unifying elements. 
c. 
Properties that do not contribute to the significance of the Historic District may be included within 
the boundaries so long as the noncontributing elements do not noticeably detract from the 
district's sense of time, place and historical development. Noncontributing elements shall be 
evaluated for their magnitude of impact by considering their size, scale, design, location and/or 
information potential.  
d. 
Historic District boundaries shall be defined by visual changes, historical documentation of 
different associations or patterns of development, or evidence of changes in site type or site 
density as established through testing or survey.  
F. 
Revocation or Amendment of Designation  
1. 
Revocation of Historic Landmark Designation 
If a building, structure, object or special feature on a designated site has been altered so as to negate 
the features necessary to retain designation, the owner may apply for a revocation of the designation. 
The Director or the Planning Commission may recommend revocation of the designation to the Board 
of County Commissioners in the absence of the owner's application to do so. If a designated building, 
structure or object is moved or demolished, the designation shall, without application or notice, be 
terminated by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. If moved, a new application for 
designation at the new location must be made in order for designation to be considered.  
2. 
Revocation or Amendment of Historic District Designation 
a. 
If a significant number of contributing properties within a historic district have been altered, 
moved, and/or demolished so as to diminish the concentration, linkage or continuity necessary 
to retain the integrity of the district, an application to amend or revoke the historic district 
designation may be submitted by the owners of record of sixty (60) percent of the contributing 
properties. The Director or the Planning Commission may recommend revocation of the 
designation to the Board of County Commissioners in the absence of the owners’ application to 
do so.  
b. 
With the consent of the owners of record of sixty (60) percent of the contributing properties, the 
Board may amend the boundaries of the historic district to exclude the properties that no longer 
contribute to the historic district or may amend the description of the historic district to remove 
those features or properties that no longer contribute to the district. The approval criteria for 
designation of a historic district as set forth in Section 4.14 E. shall be used when considering an 
amendment of a historic district. 
