CHAPTER 5 | ZONING DISTRICTS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
5-18 
transportation, and greater social interaction.   
2. 
Applicability 
The design of a mixed use development in the Whitewater Planning Area shall conform to the Mesa 
County Design Standards adopted as Appendix D in the Land Development Code 2000, as amended.  
In general, these standards require compact development built at a neighborhood scale.  Rather 
than designing structures specifically for individual tenants, buildings within the mixed use district 
should be designed to function over the life of multiple tenants in a manner similar to a main street or 
community core.  In the review of mixed use districts, the County shall consider the following: 
a. 
Ability of the residential development to provide for a variety of housing types; 
b. 
Inclusion of mixed use buildings with non-residential uses on the ground floor and residential units 
on the second floor; 
c. 
Ability of the commercial development, either as proposed or in conjunction with surrounding 
development, to serve daily or frequent needs of the surrounding neighborhood; 
d. 
Creation within the overall mixed use area of the Whitewater Plan area of a commercial core 
with supporting nodes supported by an adequate supply of residential development; 
e. 
Provision of a variety of building sizes compatible with the character of mixed use district and the 
potential for the long-term function of those buildings; 
f. 
Encouraging an orderly, phased pattern of development supported by adequate public 
facilities; and 
g. 
Specific issues of the functioning of the development, including access, parking, drainage, 
landscaping, and design. 
3. 
Description 
The application of the Mixed Use District is grouped based on the predominant use of the proposed 
development.  Two districts are available as Mixed Use, either Mixed-Use Residential (MUR) or Mixed-
Use Commercial (MUC).  In a Mixed Use Residential district, between sixty (60) and seventy-five (75) 
percent of the uses in the district are residential.  In a Mixed Use Commercial district, between sixty 
(60) and seventy-five (75) percent of the uses in the district are commercial.  Minimum lot sizes are 
established by use category and a mix of lot sizes and uses is encouraged.  The goal of this approach 
is to permit buildings and uses for all property owners without mandating a specific mix, while 
recognizing that each lot must fit into the overall whole of the development pattern. 
4. 
Uses 
Permitted uses are divided based on the type of district, either Mixed Use Residential or Mixed Use 
Commercial, as set forth in Table 6.1 of this LDC.  
5. 
Required Mix of Uses 
a. 
Mix of Uses 
In the Mixed Use District, a mix of uses – either within a single building or on a development site – 
shall be provided unless it can be demonstrated that adjacent properties provide or will provide 
a complimentary diversity of uses. The uses of adjacent properties can be established through 
one of the following:  
(1) 
Existing uses,  
(2) 
Approved site plan for development, or  
(3) 
Approved Comprehensive or Area Plan. 
b. 
Residential 
Residential uses are encouraged in the development, but are not permitted on the ground floor 
of mixed use structure.  
