CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-8 
b. 
Interior roadways must meet the requirements of this LDC; 
c. 
Walkways within the campground area shall be at least four (4) feet wide, with an all-weather 
surface; and 
d. 
Interior roadways and walks shall be lighted at intersections and at a minimum of every four 
hundred (400) feet. Full cut-off lighting fixtures shall be used and shall comply with the 
requirements of Section 8.07 F. of this LDC. This requirement may be waived or modified if 
electricity is not available or it is desirable to follow “Dark Sky” lighting principles to protect the 
rural character or natural setting of the area. 
8. 
If provided, electric and gas service shall meet all state and local electric and gas regulations. All 
utilities shall be underground. 
9. 
Service buildings with restroom and other facilities shall comply with Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment (CDPHE) standards. 
10. All trash collection areas shall be screened and if applicable, trash containers shall be wildlife-proof.  
11. All areas within the campground must have an acceptable form of groundcover to prevent erosion 
and blowing dust. 
12. One (1) tree of a species suitable for the area shall be provided for each two (2) camping spaces, 
and shall be located in close proximity to those spaces. Existing trees on the site may be used to satisfy 
this requirement. If the location is not suited to the planting of trees, a shade structure measuring at 
least ten (10) feet in each dimension may be provided for each camping space. 
13. Where a Campground or Recreational Vehicle Park is adjacent to residentially developed property, 
a fence or wall with a minimum height of six (6) feet in height may be required as a visual barrier. 
Additional screening may be required if houses on adjacent properties are within one hundred (100) 
feet of the property line. 
14. Each campground shall provide a recreational area consisting of one hundred (100) square feet per 
campsite. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted if the campground has direct access to 
public recreation areas. 
F. 
Electric Power Transmission Lines 
Above-ground electric power transmission lines transmitting one hundred fifteen (115kV) kiloVolts or more 
shall be located so as to: 
1. 
Avoid passing through, or within one (1) mile of: 
a. 
Any Urban Residential or Nonresidential zoning district; and  
b. 
The Colorado National Monument, wherever possible; and 
2. 
Avoid being visible on the skyline over any ridge, hill, mesa, or other natural landform within one (1) 
mile of the centerlines of US Interstate 70, US Highways 6 or 50, or Colorado State Highways 65, 139, 
141, 330 or 340, or the Colorado National Monument Rimrock Road, wherever possible. This 
requirement shall not apply if the power line would cross the ridge, hill, mesa, or other natural landform 
at a point where the elevation of the ridge, hill, mesa, or landform has an elevation less than fifty (50) 
feet higher than the elevation of the nearest point on the centerline of the listed road. 
G. 
Confined Animal Feeding Operations  
Confined animal feeding operations, animal waste collection systems, and animal waste treatment 
facilities shall be subject to the standards listed below: 
1. 
Setbacks and Separations 
Confined animal feeding operations, animal waste collection systems, and animal waste treatment 
facilities shall not be located within: 
a. 
One-quarter (1/4) mile of an existing dwelling that is not in common ownership with the facility, 
and is in place at the time the facility is proposed; 
