CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-37 
(1) 
Tarps, fabric, screen mesh such as that installed on a chain link fence, and similar materials 
are not considered sufficient screening.  Deciduous vegetation may be considered 
sufficient, depending on the type, density, height, and placement of plantings.  
(2) 
The screened area shall not exceed more than five (5) percent of the total parcel size, up 
to a maximum of twenty two thousand (22,000) square feet or approximately one-half (1/2) 
acre. 
(3) 
Such screened storage areas shall be kept free of weeds, trash, debris, or other similar items. 
(4) 
Outdoor storage areas for such vehicles must be maintained in such a manner that they do 
not constitute a health, safety or fire hazard.  
(5) 
Screened vehicles shall not project above the fence or wall used to screen the vehicles, 
except for vehicles or items that are resting on the ground but have a height more than six 
(6) feet tall but less than twelve (12) feet tall.   
(6) 
Fences taller than six (6) feet that are required by this Section may be permitted within 
required setbacks, subject to site plan approval.  The height and location of all fences shall 
comply with the requirements of the Intersection and Driveway Visibility standards of this LDC 
(Section 8.19). 
b. 
Subject to the limitations of Section 6.06 B.1., inoperable or unlicensed vehicles may be located 
in driveways and alongside driveways but shall not otherwise be placed in the required street 
setback. Inoperable or unlicensed vehicles shall not be placed in the required side or rear 
setbacks. 
c. 
Vehicles in an approved junkyard, auto repair garage, body shop, gas station or other similar 
commercial use where vehicle storage has been permitted pursuant to this LDC are not subject 
to the requirements of this section. 
d. 
Heavy equipment, both operable and inoperable, shall not be stored in ordinary view. 
e. 
Dismantled or wrecked vehicles are considered “junk” and are subject to the requirements of 
Section 6.02 M. 
f. 
 All automotive waste, petroleum waste, other regulated fluid, gas or liquid, or contaminants shall 
be controlled and properly contained and shall not be permitted to seep or leak into the soil.  
2. 
There shall be no limit on the number or location of active or serviceable agricultural vehicles or 
equipment on an agricultural parcel of land regardless of whether such vehicles have current 
registration or license plates, if that property owner or user is engaged in an agricultural operation that 
is historical, traditional, legitimate and reasonable, as protected under the County's Right to Farm and 
Ranch policy, and requires such vehicles for operation of that practice. 
C. 
Accumulations of Junk 
1. 
All areas of a property that are in ordinary view must be kept free of junk. 
a. 
Accumulations of junk must be contained within an enclosed structure or be visually screened 
from ordinary view by means of a solid fence, evergreen trees or shrubbery, berm, terrain, or other 
appropriate means.  
(1) 
Tarps, fabric, screen mesh such as that installed on a chain link fence, and similar materials 
are not considered sufficient screening. Deciduous vegetation may be considered 
sufficient, depending on the type, density, and placement of plantings. 
(2) 
The screened area shall not exceed more than five percent (5%) of the total parcel size up 
to a maximum of twenty two thousand (22,000) square feet or approximately one-half (1/2) 
acre. 
(3) 
Such storage areas shall be kept free of weeds, trash, debris, or other similar items.   
(4) 
Accumulations of junk shall not be stored within required setbacks. 
