CHAPTER 11 | VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
11-3 
in question to the condition in which they existed prior to the violation. 
H. 
Penalties  
The County may seek such criminal or civil penalties as are provided by Colorado law. 
I. 
Other Remedies  
The County shall have such other remedies as are and as may be, from time to time, provided by Colorado 
law for the violation of zoning, subdivision, sign or related LDC provisions. 
J. 
Other Powers  
In addition to the enforcement powers specified in this Chapter, the County may exercise any and all 
enforcement powers granted by Colorado law. 
K. 
Continuation  
Nothing in this LDC shall prohibit the continuation of previous enforcement actions, undertaken by the 
County pursuant to previous and valid ordinances and laws. 
SECTION 11.05 | REMEDIES CUMULATIVE 
The remedies and enforcement powers established in this Chapter shall be cumulative, and the County may 
exercise them in any order.  
SECTION 11.06 | ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES 
A. 
Non-Emergency Matters  
In the case of violations of this LDC that do not constitute an emergency or require immediate attention, 
the Director shall give notice of the nature of the violation to the property owner, or to any other person 
who is party to the agreement or to any applicant for any relevant permit in the manner hereafter stated, 
after which the persons receiving notice shall have thirty (30) days to correct the violation before further 
enforcement action shall be taken. Notice shall be given in person, by United States Mail, or by posting 
notice on the premises. Notices of violation shall state the nature of the violation and the time period for 
compliance, and may state the corrective steps necessary and the nature of subsequent penalties and 
enforcement actions should the situation not be corrected. 
B. 
Emergency Matters  
In the case of violations of this LDC that constitute an emergency situation as a result of safety or public 
concerns, or violations that will create increased problems or costs if not remedied immediately, the County 
may use the enforcement powers available under this Chapter without prior notice, but the Director shall 
attempt to give notice simultaneously with beginning enforcement action. Notice may be provided to the 
property owner, to any other person who is party to the agreement, and to applicants for any relevant 
permit. 
C. 
Enforcement Actions Involving Agricultural Operators  
Before taking enforcement action to correct a violation of this LDC by any agricultural operator, the Board 
of County Commissioners shall direct the Agricultural Advisory Panel to investigate the alleged violation to 
determine whether a violation of this LDC exists, and whether the activity is protected under the County’s 
Right to Farm and Ranch policy as “historical, traditional, legitimate and reasonable.” The Agricultural 
Advisory Panel shall have fifteen (15) days to return its findings and recommendations to the Board of 
County Commissioners. 
