CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-16 
towers, or buildings in a manner that precludes the need for the construction of a 
freestanding structure of its own is encouraged. To that end, an application for an 
integral, concealed tower or telecommunication facility may be issued by the 
Decision Maker.  
(d) Towers or facilities that can be constructed as an integral part or component of light 
standards, buildings, utility structure, or other structures at County owned buildings or 
facilities are encouraged.  
(e) No new tower or facility shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the 
satisfaction of the Decision Maker that no existing tower, structure, or utility facility can 
be used in lieu of new construction for the applicant's use.  At a minimum, such 
applicant shall demonstrate that: 
(i) 
No existing tower, facility, or utility structure is located within a distance which 
meets the applicant's engineering requirements; 
(ii) 
No existing tower, facility or utility structure is located within a distance which 
meets the applicant's engineering requirements and which has sufficient 
structural strength or space available to support the applicant's 
telecommunication facility and related equipment;  
(iii) The applicant's proposed telecommunication facility will not cause 
unreasonable electromagnetic or other interference with the antennas on 
existing towers, structures or utility structures or the antennas of existing Towers, 
Facilities, or utility structures or that such existing facilities would interfere with the 
applicant's uses such that co-location is not possible; 
(iv) There is some other reasonable factor that renders existing towers, facilities or 
utility structures unsuitable; and   
(v) 
No owner of existing towers, structures or utility structures, including the County 
and other governments, within a distance which meets the applicant's 
engineering requirements, will allow the applicant to place its 
telecommunication facility thereon or such owner is requiring unreasonable 
payment or terms.  
(5) 
The applicant shall submit evidence concerning structural and engineering standards 
prepared by a Colorado registered professional engineer.  The safety of the property and 
the neighborhood shall be protected.  
e. 
Interference   
Every tower and telecommunication facility shall meet the regulations of the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) regarding physical and electromagnetic interference. 
f. 
Health Issues 
Every tower and telecommunication facility shall meet applicable health and safety standards 
for electromagnetic field (EMF) emissions as established by the FCC and/or any other federal or 
state agency having jurisdiction. 
g. 
View Corridors   
Only a concealed tower or telecommunications facility, the antennas of which all are located 
on existing vertical structures, is allowed within one-eighth (1/8) mile from the right-of-way of any 
portion of Monument Road, and other rights-of-way which may be designated by resolution of 
the Board of County Commissioners.  
h. 
Historic Zones  
Only a concealed tower or telecommunication facility is allowed within a historic zone or area 
as designated by the Board of County Commissioners by resolution. 
i. 
Application Requirements   
