CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-14 
3. 
Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the agricultural practice of fencing using field stone or woody 
vegetation removed from the property upon which the fence is constructed nor shall this Section 
prohibit the use of antique wagon or antique agricultural machinery wheel for fencing. 
4. 
Fences and walls constructed of alternative materials may be approved by the Director.  
C. 
Nonresidential and Multi-Family Uses 
1. 
Required screening fences in nonresidential districts and for multi-family uses shall meet the following 
standards: 
a. 
Location of these fences must be shown on the site plan or landscape plan and approved by 
the Community Development.  
b. 
Screening fences shall be a minimum of ninety-five (95) percent opaque. Cloth or plastic mesh 
cannot be used for screening. 
D. 
Maintenance 
All fences or walls shall be maintained in good repair. Fences in common areas of subdivisions shall be 
maintained by the property owners’ or home owners’ association. 
SECTION 8.04 | LARGE RETAIL PROJECTS 
A. 
Applicability  
The standards of this Section apply to any retail sales and service uses with a total gross floor area of: 
1. 
Fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or more, if the proposed use is adjacent to any Urban Residential 
Zoning District; and  
2. 
One hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or more, if the proposed use is adjacent to only 
Nonresidential Zoning Districts. 
3. 
When the provisions of this Section conflict with other standards of this LDC, the provisions of this Section 
shall control. 
B. 
Community Spaces Site Design  
Developments shall provide outdoor spaces and amenities to link structures with the remainder of the 
community. Bus stops, and drop-off/pick-up points shall be integrated with the traffic patterns on the site. 
Special design features shall enhance the building’s function as a center of community activity. 
1. 
Each development shall provide at least two (2) of the following design features constructed of 
materials that match the principal structure and linked to the principal building by pedestrian 
connections: patio/seating area, pedestrian plaza with benches, window shopping walkway, outdoor 
playground area, kiosk area, water feature, clock tower, or other approved feature. 
2. 
Each development shall provide an off-street bus stop for customers and employees when located 
on a bus route. 
C. 
Setbacks 
The minimum street setback shall be thirty-five (35) feet. 
D. 
Landscaping 
1. 
Perimeter Buffers 
A landscaped buffer with a minimum width of thirty (30) feet shall be provided along all street lot lines 
with breaks for approved access points. A minimum fifteen (15) foot wide landscape buffer shall be 
planted along all other property lines and along all internal roadways, except where adjacent to 
residential or institutional uses; then the buffer shall be twenty (20) feet. No parking or vehicular 
circulation is permitted within these required buffer or landscape areas. 
E. 
Pedestrian Circulation  
1. 
Continuous internal pedestrian walkways, no less than eight feet in width, shall be provided from the 
