CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-30
(1)
Public facilities and services shall be available upon completion of the project to serve the
subject property while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing development;
(2)
Complies with applicable development standards of Chapter 5, Chapter 7 and Chapter 8;
and
(3)
The proposed subdivision will have no adverse or negative impacts upon the natural or
social environment or if adverse or negative impacts are present, those impacts shall be
mitigated to the maximum extent practical.
f.
Technical Disputes
As a means of resolving technical disputes between the applicant’s licensed or registered
professionals and the County, such disputes may be referred to a qualified employee of the
appropriate state department for a recommendation pursuant to C.R.S §30-28-133.5.
g.
Approval; Lapse of Approval
An approved Final Plan shall lapse and be of no further force and effect if a complete Final Plat
application, or a phase has not been submitted within one (1) year of the date of Final Plan
approval. A maximum of three (3) twelve (12) month extensions may be approved by the Director
upon review of a written request. An extension may be declined if the proposed development
would no longer be consistent with the requirements of this LDC.
5.
Final Plat
a.
Public Improvements/Development Improvements Agreements
Before approval of a Final Plat, the applicant must install all required public and private
improvements in accordance with the approved improvements construction plans or execute a
Development Improvements Agreement to install such improvements, in accordance with
Section 4.05.
b.
Acceptance of Improvements
Approval of a Final Plat shall not, in and of itself, constitute acceptance of any public
improvements. Such acceptance will require separate action by the Board of County
Commissioners.
c.
Procedure
Figure 4-12 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Final Plat applications.
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-12: Summary of the Final Plat Procedure 
STEP
3
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
2
Application 
Review
STEP
1
Application 
Submittal
d.
Recording; Lapse of Approval
If the approved Final Plat is not recorded with the Clerk and Recorder of Mesa County within
three (3) years of the date of approval of the Final Plan, the Concept Plan and Final Plan shall
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit the 
Final Plat and all other documents specified in the Final Plan approval 
to the Community Development Director. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the Final Plat 
and submitted documents to the appropriate review agencies . 
The Community Development Director shall review the Final Plat and 
submitted documents and act to approve or deny the Final Plat, after 
determining whether or not it is consistent with the approved Final 
Plan. 
