CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-4 
Historic District. 
Cooperative Planning Area: An Intergovernmental Agreement between Mesa County, the Town of Palisade, the 
City of Fruita and the City of Grand Junction also commonly known as a Community Separator and Buffer Zone. 
County Register of Historic Landmarks (County Register): A listing of significant historic places that represent the 
historical, architectural and cultural heritage of Mesa County and are worthy of recognition and preservation. 
Places may be a building, site, structure, object or district. 
Decision Making Body (Decision-Maker): the entity (Board of County Commissioners, Planning Commission, other 
board or commission or department head) that is authorized to finally approve or deny an application or permit 
required under this LDC. 
Dedication:  The grant of an interest in property to the public for public use and benefit. 
Deed:  A legal document conveying ownership or other interests in real property. 
Deed Restriction:  A legal document, recorded with the County Clerk describing restricted activities on a property, 
which may or may not include a Conservation Easement. 
Designated Floodplain: An area designated by official action by the Board of County Commissioners. 
Development:  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to the 
construction, reconstruction, conversion, or enlargement of any structure; and any mining, dredging, filling, grading, 
paving excavation, drilling operation or storage of equipment and materials. 
Domestic Livestock: Those animals listed on the Table of Animal Unit Equivalents in Section 6.04 B., Animals, within 
this LDC. 
Driveway:  A paved or unpaved area used for the ingress and/or egress of vehicles, and allowing access from a 
street to a building or other structure or facility. 
Duplex:  Two dwelling units structurally attached, located on the same lot and designed to be occupied by two 
households living independently of each other. 
Dwelling Unit:  A building or portion of it designed and used for residential occupancy by a single household and 
that includes exclusive sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation facilities. Buildings with more than one kitchen shall 
be considered multi-dwelling structures. 
Easement:  An interest or right in land owned by another that entitles its holder to a specific limited use which is 
reserved, conveyed or granted by the property owner to and for the use of the public, a utility, a corporation or 
other persons, without the transfer of fee title. 
Electrical Transmission Line:  Means any electric transmission line and appurtenant facilities which emanate from a 
power plant or a substation and terminate at a substation and which are designed for or capable of the transmission 
of electricity at 115 kilovolts or greater. 
Energy Generation/Production Facility: A facility designed to generate electricity by the conversion of natural 
resources such as light, fossil fuels, nuclear or water which is directly connected to the utility grid supplying electricity 
serving a wide customer base without being connected to specific end-users. 
FAA: Federal Aviation Administration 
FIRM: Flood Insurance Rate Map 
ft.: Feet 
Feedlot: See Confined Animal Feeding Operation. 
Fence:  A barrier constructed to mark a boundary or to prevent exit from or entry onto or into premises or property 
to screen premises or property from view or noise. A fence may be constructed of any material not otherwise 
prohibited herein, provided that the height of the fence is equal to or less than seven (7) feet and the thickness of 
the fence, excluding poles, posts, pillars, or columns less than sixteen (16) inches.  
Field Office Headquarters for Oil and Gas: Land uses which provide central oil and gas field office facilities for 
operators of oil and gas wells, gathering lines, and gas processing and compression facilities.  Oil and gas field office 
facilities are for the purpose of allowing these operators to locate and maintain personnel and equipment 
