CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-2 
D. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Director may be taken to the Board of County Adjustment in accordance with 
the procedures of Section 4.02. 
SECTION 4.02 | APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS 
A. 
Applicability  
1. 
Board of Adjustment 
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this LDC, the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide 
appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made 
by an administrative official in the administration or enforcement of the zoning requirements of this 
LDC in Chapters 5 and Chapter 7.  
2. 
Floodplain Board of Appeals 
The Floodplain Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals of decisions of Floodplain 
Administrator regarding interpretation of floodplain boundaries, issuance or denial of Floodplain 
Development Permits, conditions attached to Floodplain Development Permits, or any other provision 
of the Floodplain Regulations of Section 8.14. 
3. 
Board of County Commissioners  
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this LDC, the Board of County Commissioners shall hear and 
decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, or 
determination made by an administrative official in the administration or enforcement of this LDC, 
except as specifically provided for above in subsections 1. and 2. 
B. 
Application Filing  
Those individuals allowed to file an appeal may submit an application for an Appeal of Administrative 
Decisions to the Director.  
C. 
Timing  
Appeals of Administrative Decisions must be filed within thirty (30) days of the date of the decision or action 
being appealed. 
D. 
Effect of Filing  
Once a complete application for appeal has been received by the Director, no other development 
approvals or permits will be issued for the subject property, unless the official whose decision is being 
appealed certifies that such a hold on permits and approvals would cause immediate peril to life or 
property. If such a certification is made, development approvals and permits may be issued for the subject 
property, unless a stop work order is issued by the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or 
the Floodplain Board of Appeals, or a restraining order is issued by a court. 
E. 
Required Notice  
Notice shall be published, mailed, and posted, in accordance with the requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
F. 
Record of Administrative Decision  
Before the public hearing, the official whose decision is being appealed shall transmit to the Board of 
County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Floodplain Board of Appeals all documents constituting 
the record of the decision being appealed. 
G. 
Review and Action  
The Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or Floodplain Board of Appeals shall hold a 
public hearing of a complete application and take action on the appeal.  
1. 
Appeal Powers 
In exercising the appeal power, the Board of County Commissioners, Board of Adjustment, or 
