CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-14 
that may include the use of temporary cooking and bedding facilities such as open fires, camp stoves and cots, 
bedrolls, hammocks or sleeping bags. 
Tire, Used or Waste:  An inflatable rubber or synthetic casing, or any part thereof, designed to be sealed to a wheel 
rim under pressure, which has been applied to a given purpose, or which has been discarded from its original use. 
Tower:  A self-supporting lattice, guyed or monopole structure constructed from grade which supports 
Telecommunications Facilities.  The term Tower shall not include amateur radio operators' equipment, as licensed 
by the FCC. 
Townhouse:  Attached or semi attached dwelling, containing a single dwelling unit and located on a separate lot. 
Urban Development Boundary: That area planned for urban land uses as depicted on the Future Land Use Plan 
Map in the Grand Junction Comprehensive Plan. 
Urban Planning Area: A residential area which typically exhibits higher population density and smaller parcel sizes 
(URR, RSF-E, RSF, RMF, MU, B, C and I zoning districts). 
Use:  The purpose for which land or the building is designed, arranged or intended, or for which is or may be 
occupied or maintained; also any activity, occupation, business or operation which is carried on, in or on a structure 
or on a tract of land. 
Vehicle, Inoperable: Includes but is not limited to any automobile, truck, tractor, motorcycle or self-propelled 
vehicle which is in a condition of being junked, wrecked, wholly or partially dismantled, discarded, abandoned or 
unable to perform the functions or purpose for which it was originally constructed. The existence of any of the 
following conditions shall raise the presumption that a vehicle is inoperable: 
1. 
Absence of an effective registration plate upon such vehicle; 
2. 
Placement of the vehicle or parts thereof upon jacks, blocks, chains or other supports; or 
3. 
Absence of one (1) or more parts of the vehicle necessary for the lawful operation of the vehicle upon the 
streets and highways. 
Vehicle, Unlicensed: Includes but is not limited to any car, truck, van, motor home, camper, trailer, motorcycle or 
other vehicle not bear or display proper and/or current proof of licensing from the state of license plate issuance. 
Watercourse:  A natural or man-made channel through which water flows. 
Waters of the State: All streams, lakes, rivers, ponds, wells, impounding reservoirs, watercourses, springs, drainage 
systems, and irrigation systems; all sources of water such as snow, ice, and glaciers; and all other bodies or 
accumulations of water, surface and underground, natural or artificial, public or private, located wholly or partly 
within or bordering upon the State of Colorado and within the jurisdiction of the State of Colorado.” 
Water Surface Elevation: The height, in relation to the National American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other 
datum where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas. 
Zero Lot Line Development: Means a single-family detached development where the single-family dwellings do not 
have a common wall, but have one wall abutting a side property line. 
Zoning District:  A portion of territory of the County, within which certain uses of land, premises and buildings are 
permitted by a uniform set of regulations.  
SECTION 12.02 | USE CATEGORIES 
A. 
Basis for Classifications  
Use categories classify land uses and activities into use categories based on common functional, product, 
or physical characteristics. Characteristics include the type and amount of activity, the type of customers 
or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered and site conditions. The use categories provide a 
systematic basis for assigning present and future land uses into appropriate zoning districts. 
B. 
Principal Use Characteristics  
Principal uses are assigned to the category that most closely describes the nature of the principal use. The 
“Characteristics” subsection of each use category describes the common characteristics of each principal 
