CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-8 
(2) 
Valet parking will not cause interference with the public use of streets or imperil the public 
safety. 
c. 
Transportation Demand Management 
The number of required off-street parking spaces may be reduced for developments or uses that 
institute and commit to maintain a transportation management program, in accordance with 
the following standards: 
(1) 
Required Study 
The applicant must submit a study approved by the Director that clearly indicates the types 
of transportation management activities and measures proposed.  
(2) 
Transportation Demand Management  
Applicants are encouraged to use any transportation demand management techniques or 
studies adopted by the Grand Valley Metropolitan Planning Organization as references.  
d. 
Off-Site Parking Plan 
Off-street parking spaces may be located on a separate lot from the lot on which the principal 
use is located if the off-site parking complies with all of following standards; 
(1) 
Ineligible Activities 
Off-site parking may not be used to satisfy the off-street parking standards for residential uses 
(except for guest parking), restaurants, convenience stores or other convenience-oriented 
uses. Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities may not be located off-
site. 
(2) 
Location 
Off-site parking space should be located no more than five hundred (500) feet or one 
thousand (1,000) feet for employees, from the primary entrance of the use served. Off-site 
parking spaces should not be separated from the use served by a street right-of-way with a 
width of more than eighty (80) feet, unless a grade-separated pedestrian walkway, other 
traffic control, or safety device is provided. 
(3) 
Zoning Classification 
Off-site parking areas require the same or a more intensive zoning classification than 
required for the use served. 
(4) 
Agreement for Off-Site Parking 
An off-site parking plan will be enforced through written agreement among all owners of 
record. The agreement must have a minimum term of ten (10) years. An attested copy of 
the agreement between the owners of record must be submitted to the Director for 
recordation. Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a building 
permit for any use to be served by the off-site parking area. An off-site parking agreement 
may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces will be provided, in accordance 
with Section 8.01 B. 
e. 
Shared Parking 
Developments or uses with different operating hours or peak business periods may share off-street 
parking spaces and if the shared parking complies with all of following standards: 
(1) 
Location 
Shared parking spaces must be located within five hundred (500) feet of the primary 
entrance of all uses served. 
(2) 
Zoning Classification 
Shared parking areas require the same or a more intensive zoning classification than 
