CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-15 
public sidewalk or right-of-way to the principal customer entrance of all principal buildings on the site. 
At a minimum, walkways shall connect focal points of pedestrian activity such as, but not limited to, 
transit stops, street crossings, building and store entry points, and, where appropriate, be adjacent to 
landscaped areas that includes trees, shrubs, benches, flower beds, groundcover, or other such 
materials. 
2. 
Sidewalks, no less than eight (8) feet in width, shall be provided along the full length of the building 
along any facade featuring a customer entrance, and along any facade abutting public parking 
areas. Such sidewalks may be located an average of six (6) feet from the facade of the building to 
provide planting beds for foundation landscaping, except where features such as arcades, display 
windows or entryways are part of the facade. 
3. 
Internal pedestrian walkways should be distinguished from driving surfaces through the use of durable, 
low maintenance surface materials such as pavers, bricks, or scored concrete to enhance pedestrian 
safety and comfort, as well as the attractiveness of the walkways. 
F. 
Parking Lot Orientation  
Parking areas shall provide safe, convenient, and efficient access. They shall be distributed around large 
buildings in order to shorten the distance to other buildings and public sidewalks and to reduce the overall 
scale of the paved surface. No more than seventy-five (75) percent of the off-street parking area for the 
entire property shall be located between the front facade of the principal building and the primary 
abutting street.  
G. 
Building Design  
The following standards shall apply to all building facades and exterior walls that are visible from adjoining 
public streets or properties. 
1. 
Facades greater than one hundred fifty (150) feet in length, measured horizontally, shall incorporate 
wall plane projections or recesses having a depth of at least three (3) percent of the length of the 
facade, and extending at least twenty (20) percent of the length of the facade. No uninterrupted 
length of any facade shall exceed one hundred fifty (150) horizontal feet. 
2. 
Ground floor facades that face public streets shall have arcades, display windows, entry areas, 
awnings, or other such features along no less than sixty (60) percent of their horizontal length. If the 
facade facing the street is not the front, it shall include the same features and/or landscaping in scale 
with the facade. 
3. 
Flat roofs and rooftop equipment, such as HVAC units, shall be concealed from public view by 
parapets. The average height of such parapets shall not exceed one third (1/3) of the height of the 
supporting wall, and such parapets shall not be of a constant height for a distance of greater than 
one hundred fifty (150) feet. 
4. 
Overhanging eaves, extending no less than three (3) feet past the supporting walls, for no less than 
thirty (30) percent of the building perimeter are allowed. 
5. 
Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the supporting walls, with an average slope 
greater than or equal to one (1) foot of vertical rise for every three (3) feet of horizontal run and less 
than or equal to one (1) foot of vertical rise for every one (1) foot of horizontal run are required. 
6. 
Three (3) or more roof slope planes are required. 
7. 
Predominant exterior buildings materials shall be high quality materials. These include, without 
limitation: 
a. 
Brick; 
b. 
Wood; 
c. 
Sandstone; 
d. 
Other native stone; and 
e. 
Tinted, textured, concrete masonry units. 
