CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-32 
exceed the number allowed by Section 6.04 B. of this LDC. See also Table 6-1, Animal 
Care/Boarding/Sales. 
(3) 
Industrial Uses 
Industrial uses may only be allowed in zoning districts as indicated in Table 6-1. 
d. 
Public Right-of-Way 
e. 
Customers and delivery services may park in the public right-of-way limited to the area in front of 
the home occupation. All other activities and storage areas associated with home occupations 
(including employee and company vehicle parking) are prohibited within public rights-of-way.  
f. 
Operational Impacts 
No home occupation, or equipment used in conjunction with a home occupation, may cause 
odor, vibration, noise, dust, electrical interference, or fluctuation in voltage that is perceptible 
beyond the lot line of the lot upon which the home occupation is conducted. Home occupations 
that generate hazardous waste shall register with the Mesa County Hazardous Waste Collection 
Facility in the Conditionally Exempt Small Quantity Generators (CESQG) program.  
TABLE 6-4: SUMMARY OF HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS 
 
Urban Zone Districts 
Rural Zone Districts 
Nonresident 
Employees 
2 (Maximum) 
Resident Operator 
Operator must be full time resident of dwelling unit 
Customers 
12 per day (maximum) 8:00 am to 8:00 pm Monday through Saturday 
Floor Area 
25% of dwelling unit  -(maximum) attached or 
detached structure 
25% of dwelling unit plus an additional 1,000 square 
feet of attached or detached structure  
Signs 
2 square feet (Maximum) 
Outdoor Activities 
None 
Allowed within a 1,000 square feet area if screened 
and all home occupation regulations are met. 
Exterior Appearance 
No change that makes the dwelling appear less 
residential in nature and no visible evidence of 
home occupation from the road or from 
adjacent properties. The occupation must be 
entirely contained within a permitted principal or 
accessory building. Outdoor parking is allowed 
but must be screened from view of adjoining 
properties and public roads; vehicles parked in 
the driveway are exempt from screening 
requirements.  
No change that makes the dwelling appear less 
residential in nature and no visible evidence of 
home occupation from the road or from adjacent 
properties.  The use may be contained within 
outbuildings if the square footage utilized does not 
exceed 1,000 square feet.  Outdoor parking is 
allowed but must be screened from view of 
adjoining properties and public roads; vehicles 
parked in the driveway are exempt from screening 
requirements. 
Small Engine Repair 
Prohibited 
Allowed – must maintain minimum setback of 200 
feet from off-site dwellings and conduct activity 
within an enclosed structure. 
Deliveries 
Only between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday – Saturday 
Retail Sales 
None except as accessory and incidental to the allowed home occupation 
Off Street Parking 
 
1 space required per nonresident employee and per company vehicle. Company and employee 
vehicles that are not parked in the driveway must be screened from view of adjacent lots and streets 
and may not be parked within the setback areas. Customers and delivery services may park in the road 
right-of-way. 
Number of Home 
Occupations on Site 
1 (maximum) 
E. 
Accessory Dwellings 
1. 
Accessory dwelling applications are reviewed as a residential site plan in accordance with Section 
4.16 C. and must additionally comply with applicable standards listed below.    
2. 
General Standards  
The following general standards shall apply to accessory dwellings: 
a. 
Only one (1) attached or detached accessory dwelling shall be allowed per parcel or lot. 
