CHAPTER 7 | MEASUREMENT AND DENSITY STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
7-1 
CHAPTER 7 | MEASUREMENT AND DENSITY STANDARDS 
SECTION 7.01 | MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS 
A. 
Density  
 Density is measured by dividing the number of dwelling units on a lot or parcel by the parcel’s gross land 
area (in acres). Gross land area includes the entire parcel or property at the time a development 
application is filed.  
1. 
Exceptions to Minimum Density Requirements 
a. 
The Director shall be authorized to approve a minimum density of up to twenty (20) percent less 
than otherwise stated in Chapter 5 (using the Administrative Adjustment review and approval 
procedure of Section 4.01) when deemed necessary to accommodate unusually small or oddly 
shaped parcels, roads, right-of-way, floodplains, steep slopes, wetlands, hazard area, open 
space and other non-developable lands.  
b. 
Minimum density standards shall not apply to a minor subdivision in the RSF-4, RMF-5, or RMF-8 
zone districts if: 
(1) 
One lot can be reasonably resubdivided or developed in a manner that complies with the 
underlying zone district’s minimum density standards; and 
(2) 
The new lot(s) created are a maximum lot size of one half (.5) acre in RSF-4, or one third (.33) 
acre in RMF-5 or one fifth (.2) acre in RMF-8.  
(3) 
However, if sewer is unavailable, one (1) additional lot shall be allowed with a minimum lot 
size of one (1) acre or larger as long as both lots can be reasonably resubdivided or 
developed in a manner that complies with the underlying zone district’s minimum density 
standards. 
 
Figure 7-1: Minimum Density Standard 
B. 
Lot Area  
1. 
 Lot area is measured as the amount of net land area contained within the property lines of a lot or 
parcel, not including streets or rights-of-way.  
2. 
For the purpose of calculating density on existing parcels zoned RSF-4, RMF-5, RMF-8, RMF-16 and RMF-
24 that are smaller than five acres, one-half of the land area of all adjoining rights-of-way may be 
included in the gross lot area. The area of the right-of-way shall not be included to determine 
compliance with the minimum lot area requirements. 
3. 
Exceptions to Minimum Lot Area Requirements 
 No building permit or development approval shall be issued for a lot that does not meet the minimum 
lot area requirements of this LDC, except in the following cases. 
