CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-31 
a. 
All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage. 
b. 
All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities (such as sewer, gas, electrical, and 
water systems) located and constructed to minimize flood damage. 
c. 
All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood 
damage. 
d. 
Base flood elevation data must be provided for subdivision proposals and other proposed 
development that contains at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. 
7. 
In the instance of an individual manufactured home which is to be elevated on pilings, the piling 
foundations shall be placed in stable soil no more than ten (10) feet apart, and reinforcement shall be 
provided for any piers extending more than six (6) feet above the ground. 
8. 
All manufactured homes, on a single lot or in a new or expansion to an existing manufactured home 
park or subdivision, that are placed or substantially improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on sites 
(i) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured home park or 
subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, or (iv) in an 
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred 
substantial damage as the result of a flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the 
lowest floor elevation of the manufactured home is elevated to at least one foot above the base 
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist 
floatation, collapse or lateral movement. 
9. 
All manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision prior to the time these 
regulations are implemented, that are placed or substantially improved on sites in existing 
manufactured home parks or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH, and AE that are not subject to the 
provisions of the previous paragraph shall be elevated so that either (i) the lowest floor of the 
manufactured home is at least one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, or (ii) the manufactured 
home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent 
strength that are no less than thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade, and, shall be securely 
attached to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse or lateral 
movement. 
10. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor 
(including the basement) elevated to at least one foot above the projected water surface elevation 
of the 100-year flood.  
11. Within the AO and AH Zones on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) require that all new construction 
and substantial improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) 
elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on 
the FIRM (at least two (2) feet if no depth number is specified). 
12. Within Zones AO and AH require that adequate drainage paths be provided around structures on 
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. 
13. New construction, and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial and other 
nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level 
of the projected 100-year flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall: 
a. 
Be flood proofed so that below the 100-year flood elevation the structure is watertight with walls 
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;  
b. 
Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the 
effect of buoyancy; and 
c. 
Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the design and methods of 
constriction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions 
of this regulation. 
14. Within any AO and AH Zones on the FIRM require that all new construction or substantial improvements 
of nonresidential structures have the lowest floor elevation (including basement) elevated above the 
