CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-11 
and the following criteria shall be considered: 
1. 
The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others; 
2. 
The danger to life and property due to flooding and erosion damage;  
3. 
The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such 
damage on the individual owners;  
4. 
The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community; and 
5. 
The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;  
6. 
The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject to flooding or 
erosion damage;  
7. 
The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and anticipated development, and; 
8. 
Whether the proposed use is consistent with the floodplain management program for that area;  
9. 
The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;  
10. The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the flood waters and 
the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site; and 
11. The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including 
maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as gas, sewer, electrical, and water 
systems, streets and bridges. 
D. 
Conditions of Approval  
In granting a Floodplain Variance, the Floodplain Board of Appeals may impose such conditions, 
safeguards, and restrictions upon the premises benefited by the variance as may be necessary to reduce 
or minimize any potentially adverse effect of such variance upon other property in the neighborhood, and 
to carry out the general purpose and intent of this LDC. Any condition imposed must relate to a situation 
created or aggravated by the use or the proposed Floodplain Variance and must be roughly proportional 
to its impact. More specifically:   
1. 
Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected 
on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures 
constructed below the base flood level, providing items (1-11) in Section 4.08 C. have been fully 
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justifications 
required for issuing the variances increases.  
2. 
Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the 
National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the 
procedures set forth in the remainder of this section. 
3. 
Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the 
base flood discharge would result. 
4. 
Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary, 
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief. 
5. 
Variances shall only be issued upon: 
a. 
A showing of good and sufficient cause; 
b. 
A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the 
applicant; 
c. 
A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, 
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expenses, create nuisances, cause fraud 
on or victimization of the public as identified in Section 4.08 C. or conflict with exiting local laws 
or ordinances. 
6. 
Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be 
