CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-26 
roadways and access points, wildlife corridors, floodplain, easements, existing utilities, and 
connection to the electrical grid. 
d. 
Setbacks 
(1) 
One quarter (1/4) mile from a Colorado designated Scenic By-way or from the Palisade Fruit 
and Vine Byway.  
(2) 
A minimum of one hundred fifty (150) feet from the nearest outside wall of residential 
occupied structure on adjacent properties or a negotiated agreement is reached with the 
adjacent property owner.  
e. 
Fire Prevention and Safety Procedures  
(1) 
The relevant Fire Protection District’s adopted standards, based on current fire code, shall 
apply.  
(2) 
A fire break or other facility perimeter design acceptable to the fire district shall be required 
to reduce or eliminate the interface risk from wildfire.  
(3) 
If fenced, egress gates should be installed approximately every 300 feet along any perimeter 
fencing.  
(4) 
A vegetation management plan shall describe the operator’s methods to maintain 
vegetation inside the facility to address wildfire which may include treatment, mowing, 
agrivoltaics or other methods of fuel reduction.  
f. Visual Mitigation  
Reasonable efforts to mitigate visual impacts of an energy generation/production facility will be 
detailed in the project narrative. Visual impact mitigation may include opaque fencing, 
screening, berming, use of existing or planted vegetation of landscaping either on-site, or off-site.  
(1) Solar System equipment shall be no higher than fifteen (15) feet at the solar panel mounting 
point. The height of the interconnection equipment may exceed 15 feet. Solar System 
Facilities within 50 feet of a property line of a residential zoned property should be designed 
with some form of visual mitigation, to include but not be limited to, opaque fencing, or 
landscaping.  
(2) Agrivoltaics are exempt from height restrictions. 
g. 
Wildlife, Wetlands, Riparian Areas and Stream Channel Measures  
(1) 
The Operator shall address the recommendations of Colorado Parks & Wildlife (CPW) that 
address any site-specific site conditions. The Applicant shall avoid constructing in CPW-
mapped High Priority Habitats (HPH) to the maximum extent possible.  
(2) 
Operator shall inspect the interior of the facility at least once weekly, to potentially free any 
trapped animals. 
(3) 
When fencing is necessary, the use of wildlife friendly fencing is encouraged.  
h. 
Decommissioning Plan 
At the time of application, Operator shall include a decommissioning plan for the facility which 
will include detailed plans for management and removal of equipment, mounting systems, 
above and underground utilities, equipment and facilities as follows: 
(1) 
Within twelve (12) months of ceasing operations, the operator shall complete 
decommissioning of the facility which may include removal of all aboveground and 
belowground equipment and structures and removal of any access roads and fire breaks 
unless previous agreements have been made with the property owner. 
(2) 
Any equipment that cannot be recycled shall be properly disposed in accordance with all 
State and Federal regulations.  
