CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-24 
c. 
Camping in an AFT zoning district that is not located in a campground and that meets the 
requirements of Section 6.04 F. is considered accessory to the residential use. 
F. 
Parking, Commercial  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Commercial Parking facilities provide parking that is not accessory to a specific use. A fee may or may 
not be charged. A facility that provides both accessory parking for a specific use and regular fee 
parking for people not connected to the use is also classified as a Commercial Parking facility. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 In a parking structure only, accessory uses may include gasoline sales, car washing and vehicle repair 
activities if these uses provide service only to vehicles parked in the garage. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include short- and long-term fee parking facilities and mixed parking lots (partially accessory 
to a specific use, partly for rent to others). 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Parking facilities that are accessory to a use, but that charge the public to park for occasional 
events nearby, are not considered Commercial Parking facilities. 
b. 
Parking facilities that are accessory to a principal use are not considered Commercial Parking 
uses, even if the operator leases the facility to the principal use or charges a fee to the individuals 
who park in the facility.  
c. 
Public transit park-and-ride facilities are classified as Basic Utilities. 
G. 
Self-Service Storage  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Self-Service Storage uses provide separate storage areas for individual or business uses. The storage 
areas are designed to allow private access by the tenant for storing or removing personal property.  
Storage may be enclosed in a building or may be located outdoors for vehicles and recreational 
equipment. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses may include living quarters for a resident manager or security and leasing offices. Use 
of the storage areas for sales, service and repair operations, or manufacturing is not considered 
accessory to the Self-Service Storage use. The rental of trucks or equipment is also not considered 
accessory to a Self-Service Storage use. 
3. 
Examples 
 Examples include facilities that provide individual storage areas for rent, also called mini-warehouses, 
and outdoor storage of recreational vehicles, boats and other personal vehicles. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
A transfer and storage business where there are no individual storage areas or where employees 
are the primary movers of the goods to be stored or transferred is in the Warehouse and Freight 
Movement category. 
b. 
The rental of trucks or equipment is considered Retail Sales and Service. 
H. 
Vehicle Repair  
1. 
Characteristics 
 Vehicle Repair firms service passenger vehicles, light and medium trucks and other consumer motor 
vehicles such as motorcycles, boats and recreational vehicles. Generally, the customer does not wait 
at the site while the service or repair is being performed. 
