CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-23 
c. 
A good faith estimate of the length of time that the drilling rig will be located on the property. 
The operator shall also submit, with the Minor Site Plan application, a copy of a letter that notified the 
surface owner of the application and included a copy of the checklist and a generalized site plan. 
Z. 
Minor Entertainment Events 
Applications for minor entertainment events shall address the following concerns, including mitigation, in a 
Conditional Use Permit application:   
1. 
Vehicle access and circulation (including emergency access);  
2. 
Noise limits set forth in C.R.S. §25-12-103;  
3. 
Hours of operation with an appropriate time to end activities associated with proposed events;  
4. 
Distance of the event footprint from adjacent residences to minimize, or eliminate if possible, potential 
impacts of noise, dust, lights, and other effects of the events;  
5. 
Peak hour traffic generation; and  
6. 
Screening of the event activities from residences on adjacent properties. 
AA. Industrial Development Design Standards 
1. 
Purpose 
These design standards are intended to ensure that all industrial development is well designed, 
sensitive to surrounding natural features, and positively contributes to the character and function of 
the entire community.  
2. 
Applicability 
These standards shall apply to all new industrial, commercial/industrial, and business park 
development and major rehabilitation of existing structures that abut roads designated as an existing 
or future collector or arterial, as depicted on the Functional Classification Maps of the Road Access 
Policy, in the following locations:  
a. 
Any property in an I-1 or I-2 zoning district, excluding those uses listed in Table 6-1 as “Residential” 
or “Institutional & Civic”. 
b. 
Any property in a C-2, MU-R, MU-C or PUD zoning district where the proposed use would also be 
an allowed use or a conditional use in an I-1 or I-2 zoning district, and where the use is listed in 
Table 5.1 as “Commercial” or “Other”. 
c. 
Any use classified as Industrial in Table 6-1, regardless of the zoning district. 
3. 
Design Standards 
a. 
Building Orientation 
To the maximum extent possible: 
(1) 
Primary building entry facades should orient towards the major access drive or street; and 
(2) 
Structures should be oriented to screen outdoor storage areas from view from the street and 
adjacent residential areas. 
b. 
Parking 
All parking lots located within the front half of the parcel or in front of the principal structure shall 
only be used for parking of passenger vehicles and shall include no more than fifty (50) percent 
of the planned parking spaces. Fleet parking, equipment storage and loading docks shall not be 
located adjacent to the collector or arterial street. Placement in the rear half of the lot or behind 
the principal structure is encouraged. For purposes of this Standard, where properties have 
frontage on both a collector street (or a street of a higher classification level) and another street 
of a lower level, the collector or higher-level street shall be considered the front with respect to 
location of parking. 
