CHAPTER 1 | INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
1-2 
protected. Any new or expanded agricultural operation or practice that is legitimate and reasonable shall 
be encouraged. 
B. 
Agriculture as a way of life benefits all residents of Mesa County. It is an important part of the economy and 
adds intrinsic value to life in Mesa County. Agriculture, as a business, brings with it noise, odors, dust, mud, 
smoke and other inconveniences, such as weed burning, equipment and livestock on public roads, odors 
from manure and feeds, odors from chemical applications, lights and noises at all hours of the day and 
night, and on-farm processing and marketing of crops and livestock. To maintain this way of life, Mesa 
County intends to protect agricultural operators from unnecessary, intrusive litigation. Therefore, no 
inconvenience shall be considered a nuisance so long as it occurs as a part of non-negligent and legal 
agricultural practice, as stated in C.R.S. §35-3.5-101, 102 and 103. 
SECTION 1.07 | WORD USAGE AND CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE 
A. 
Meanings and Intent  
All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Land Development Code shall be construed 
according to the Purposes set out in Section 1.05. 
B. 
Headings, Illustrations and Text  
In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this Land Development Code and 
any heading, drawing, table, figure, or illustration, the text shall control. 
C. 
Lists and Examples  
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use terms such as “for example,” 
“including,” or “such as,” or similar language, are intended to provide examples and are not to be 
exhaustive lists of all possibilities.  
D. 
Computation of Time  
The time in which an act is to be completed shall be computed by excluding the first day and including 
the last day. If a deadline or required date of action falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by 
the County, the deadline or required date of action shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or 
holiday observed by the County. References to days are calendar days unless otherwise stated. 
E. 
References to Other Regulations, Publications and Documents  
Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be 
construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, or 
document, unless otherwise specifically stated. 
F. 
Delegation of Authority  
Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or another officer or employee of the 
County to perform an act or duty, that provision shall be construed as authorizing the department head or 
officer to delegate that responsibility to others over whom they have authority. 
G. 
Technical and Non-Technical Terms  
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, 
but technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall 
be construed and understood according to such meaning. 
H. 
Public Officials and Agencies  
All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are those of Mesa County, unless 
otherwise indicated. 
I. 
Mandatory and Discretionary Terms  
The words “shall,” “will,” and “must” are always mandatory. The words “may” and “should” are 
discretionary terms. 
