CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-26
2.
Procedure
Figure 4-8 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Exempt Land Division
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
Figure 4-8: Summary of the Exempt Land Division Procedure 
STEP
6
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
3.
Approval Criteria
In evaluating the proposed request, the following criteria shall be considered:
a.
The applicant was unaware of the illegality of the property purchased at the time of transfer
and/or the improperly divided parcel has transferred two (2) or more times to different owners;
b.
The applicant has demonstrated a diligent and unsuccessful attempt to obtain relief from the
sale of the improperly divided parcel through normal procedure; or
c.
The strict application of the this LDC would result in peculiar and practical difficulties to, and
exceptional and undue hardship upon, the property owner and the use of the land; and
d.
The improperly divided parcel has existed more than ten (10) years.
4.
Appeal
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided
by law.
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Approval Criteria under (Section 4.10 D.3.) and shall prepare a
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the 
Exempt Land Division application and, at the close of the public 
hearing, act to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the 
application, based on the Approval Criteria of Section 4.10 D.3 . 
