CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-25 
b. 
Agricultural Division process may be used multiple times providing that the total number of 
parcels created does not exceed one parcel for each twenty-five (25) acres of the 
original/parent Tract. 
3. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-7 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Agricultural Division 
applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-7: Summary of the Agricultural Division Procedure 
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
4. 
Approval Criteria: 
In evaluating the proposed request, all of the following criteria shall be considered: 
a. 
Either approval of service by a water district or a well permit is required for the new lots.  This 
process is not considered an exempt subdivision for the purpose of compliance with Section 8.09, 
Potable Water Supply, as amended in the LDC; 
b. 
The division shall not detract from the integrity and efficiency of the agricultural operations; 
c. 
New lots shall be less than five (5) acres in size unless an exception is approved by the Director 
for reasons related to topography, natural or man-made features, or soils conditions. The 
minimum lot size will be established by compliance with the Wastewater Standards in Section 
8.11; 
d. 
The number of lots created shall not exceed one (1) new parcel for each twenty-five (25) acres; 
and 
e. 
New lots may be created with no street frontage in order to allow the agricultural use to continue.  
D. 
Exempt Land Division  
1. 
Applicability  
The Board may consider a request for an Exempt Land Division to correct an illegal division of Land 
which occurred after September 1, 1972. 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall make a decision based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.10 C.4. The decision shall be 
in writing and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
