CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-29 
(b) 
Lodging shall be short-term, fourteen (14) days or less; 
(c) 
Lodging units shall be exempt from standards listed in Section 6.02 E. of this LDC. 
(d) 
Temporary portable toilets (port-a-potty) or approved pit or vault toilet(s) shall be 
provided and serviced regularly.  
(e) 
A lodging unit may include, but is not limited to, tents with or without an established 
“platform”, tipis, sheep wagons, yurts, RVs, tiny homes, cabins or camp and tent sites. 
(7) 
Farm animal viewing and petting.  
(8) 
Tours of grounds and facilities.  
(9) 
Exhibits or other activities related to the principle agricultural use, as determined by the 
Director. 
b. 
Additional Standards:  
(1) 
Sound generated by outdoor amplified music shall neither exceed sixty-five (65) decibels 
between the hours of 7:00am and 10:00pm nor sixty (60) decibels between the hours of 
10:00pm and 7:00am, as measured at or beyond any of the property lines from which the 
noise is emanating. 
(2) 
The use shall not interfere with normal agricultural practices or convert agricultural land to 
a non-agricultural use. 
g. 
The access provided shall be from a public road and shall meet all requirements of the Mesa 
County Design Standards. 
 
B. 
Aviation and Surface Passenger Terminals  
1. 
Characteristics 
Aviation and Surface Passenger Terminals include facilities for the landing and takeoff of flying 
vehicles, including loading and unloading areas. Aviation facilities may be improved or unimproved. 
Aviation and Surface Passenger Terminals also includes passenger terminals for aircraft, regional bus 
service and regional rail service. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses include freight handling areas, concessions, offices, parking, and maintenance and 
fueling facilities. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include airports, bus passenger terminals for regional bus service, railroad passenger stations 
for regional rail service, and helicopter landing facilities. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Bus and rail passenger stations for subregional service such as mass transit stops and park-and-
ride facilities are classified as Basic Utilities. 
b. 
Private helicopter landing facilities that are accessory to another use, are considered accessory 
uses. However, they are subject to all the regulations and approval criteria for helicopter landing 
facilities. 
C. 
Mining  
1. 
Characteristics 
Mining includes mining or extraction of mineral or aggregate resources from the ground for off-site use 
regardless of whether or not the State of Colorado requires a Reclamation Permit for the activity. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses include storage, sorting, stockpiling, or transfer off-site of the mined material. 
