CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-10 
intended to be occupied. 
Off-Site Improvement: Any utility, paving, grading, drainage, structure or modification of topography which is, or 
will be located on property that is (a) not within the boundary of the property to be developed or (b) on or under 
any perimeter roadway surrounding the property to be development. 
Onsite Wastewater Treatment System (OWTS): A septic tank, seepage tile-sewage disposal system, or any other 
approved on-lot sewage treatment device. 
Open Space:  An outdoor, unenclosed area, located on the ground, designed and accessible for outdoor living, 
recreation, pedestrian access or landscaping, but not including roads, parking areas, driveways, or other areas 
intended for vehicular travel. 
Open Space, Common:  Open space within a development that is owned in common by a Property Owners’ 
Association and which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents or occupants 
of the development. Common Open Space does not include areas used for streets, alleys, driveways, or off-street 
parking or loading areas. However, the area of recreational activities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, and 
other recreation facilities may be counted as common open space. 
Operator:  The mineral estate owner, mineral estate lessee, drilling contractor, production company, or any party or 
parties acting on behalf of any of the above that has control or management of operations of the oil and gas well. 
Ordinary View: A sight line from beyond the subject property within normal visual range by a person standing on a 
public sidewalk or adjacent property at non-elevated ground level. 
Overburden:  All of the earth and other materials which lie above natural mineral deposits of limestone used for 
construction purposes, coal, sand, gravel, and quarry aggregate, and also means such earth and other materials 
disturbed from their natural state in the process of open mining. 
Parcel: An area of land described as one entity in a legal document and in the possession of, or owned by, or 
recorded as the property of, the same person or persons. Not to be confused with a tax parcel.  
Pasture:  Land, including fenced fields, where plants, including but not limited to hay, grass, alfalfa, or corn are 
cultivated and irrigated or watered and are grown for the purpose of grazing. Fenced yards for dwellings cannot 
be used as pasture.  Weeds (including plants which are not being planted, cultivated and watered or irrigated) 
cannot be used as pasture.  
 Areas where animals are tied or contained in a pen, corral or building are not considered pasture areas.  Any 
rangeland or forested lands that can be used for grazing shall be considered pasture. 
PUD: Planned Unit Development 
Permanent Monument: Any structure of masonry and/or metal permanently placed on or in the ground, including 
those expressly placed for surveying reference. 
Plan, Concept: A map of a proposed land subdivision showing the character and proposed layout of the tract in 
sufficient detail according to these regulations to indicate the suitability of the proposed subdivision.  
Plat, Final:  A map of a land subdivision prepared according to applicable laws of the State of Colorado and these 
regulations having the necessary affidavits for filing, dedications and acceptances, and with complete bearings 
and dimensions of all lines defining lots and blocks, streets and alleys, public areas and other dimensions of land. 
Potable Water:  Water which complies with all requirements of the Colorado State Health Department for drinking 
water and related to chemical and bacterial content and which, in addition, complies with other potability 
standards which may be imposed by the Board of County Commissioners, by resolution, from time to time. 
Private Utility:  A business or service which is engaged in regularly supplying the public with some commodity or 
service which is of public consequences and need, such as electricity, gas, transportation or communication. 
Property Line:  The lines bounding the property. 
Property Line Adjustment: A change in parcel boundaries that does not create additional parcels. 
Property Owners’ Association: A private, nonprofit corporation of property owners for the purpose of owning, 
operating and maintaining various common properties and irrigation facilities. 
