CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-18 
supply, shall be identified in all applications, and development shall not be permitted in these areas unless 
the application provides for the avoidance of the particular hazards. If avoidance is impossible or would 
require the construction to violate other development standards, then such hazards shall be minimized or 
mitigated. Land subject to severe wind and water erosion shall be identified on all plans and shall not be 
subdivided unless the problems are mitigated by density limitation or some other practical method. 
B. 
Slope Conditions  
1. 
Only after a subsurface soils investigation conducted by a licensed professional civil engineer is 
reviewed by the Colorado Geological Survey and the licensed professional civil engineer has 
adequately addressed the recommendations of the Colorado Geological Survey to the satisfaction 
of the Mesa County Building Department, may new structures be built on any parcel of land within a 
building envelope, (i.e., within twenty-five (25) feet of any portion of the proposed structure) that 
contains an average slope of thirty (30) percent or more, as measured from the points with the highest 
and lowest elevation. 
2. 
Cuts, fills, grading, excavation, vegetation removal, and building construction shall be confined to the 
footprint of the proposed building plus a working area of thirty (30) feet around each such footprint, 
plus any site disturbance necessary for installation and maintenance of utilities, access ways, trails, 
irrigation ditches, and fences, and for landscaping, agriculture, and similar activities. Any site 
disturbances that remove existing vegetation from a property and leave large areas of soil exposed 
for more than sixty (60) days shall not be permitted unless an erosion control and revegetation plan 
has been previously approved by the Director. 
C. 
Wildfire Hazards  
1. 
Defensible Space  
It is encouraged that new development located on lands containing predominantly woods or brush, 
should be developed so as to minimize the potential for the structures to be ignited by fire, or for a 
structure fire to ignite surrounding structures or vegetation following the two (2) part zone system set 
forth below.  
a. 
Zone 1 
On parcels of land that contain an average slope of less than thirty (30) percent, Zone 1 shall 
consist of the thirty (30) foot area immediately surrounding the primary structure, not to extend 
beyond the property line. On parcels of land that contain an average slope of thirty (30) to fifty-
five (55) percent, Zone 1 shall consist of the area extending forty-five (45) feet to the sides and up 
slope of the primary structure and sixty (60) feet down slope of the primary structure, not to extend 
beyond the property line. On parcels of land that contain an average slope of more than fifty-
five (55) percent, Zone 1 shall consist of the area extending sixty (60) feet to the sides and up 
slope of the primary structure and one hundred twenty (120) feet down slope of the primary 
structure, not to extend beyond the property line.  
For purposes of this provision, average slope shall be measured from the points with highest and 
lowest elevation within twenty-five (25) feet of any portion of the footprint of the proposed 
primary structure. No dead trees or other dead vegetation may remain in Zone 1 at the time of 
initial construction. Zone 1 shall be further subdivided into two (2) segments: 
(1) 
Segment A shall consist of the five (5) feet immediately surrounding all sides of the structure. 
All vegetation shall be removed from this area at the time of initial sale. No new vegetation 
shall be planted in Segment A if the structure is sided with combustible materials such as 
wood or logs. However, if noncombustible siding is used, low-growing shrubs may remain or 
be installed. In no case may shrubs be planted so as to be contiguous with grass areas. No 
above-ground propane tanks, firewood or other combustible materials may be installed or 
stored in Segment A. 
(2) 
Segment B shall consist of the area immediately beyond Segment A and continuing to the 
outer boundary of Zone 1. At the time of initial construction vegetation shall be thinned as 
follows to break up the horizontal and vertical continuity of fuels: 
