CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-30 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include quarrying or dredging for sand, gravel or other aggregate materials; mining; and oil, 
gas, or geothermal drilling, also included are support services for drilling or mining such as temporary 
employee housing; parking, storage and maintenance of exploration, production or workover 
equipment, pipe and production equipment; equipment and storage yards for road and pipeline 
construction contractors and production unit set-up and maintenance contractors; and field offices 
used by production related personnel.  
D. 
Telecommunications Facilities  
1. 
Characteristics 
Telecommunications facilities include all devices, equipment, machinery, structures or supporting 
elements necessary to produce nonionizing electromagnetic radiation within the range of frequencies 
from 100 KHz to 300 GHz, and operating as a discrete unit to produce a signal or message. Facilities 
may be self supporting, guyed, mounted on poles, other structures, light posts, power poles, or 
buildings. Facilities shall also include intertie and interconnection translators, connections from over-
the-air to cable, fiber optic, or other landline transmission system. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
Accessory uses may include transmitter facility buildings. 
3. 
Examples 
Examples include broadcast towers, communication towers, point-to-point microwave towers and all 
FCC licensed commercial wireless telecommunications services including cellular, personal 
communication services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio 
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist or that may in the future be developed. 
4. 
Exceptions 
a. 
Receive-only antennas and amateur radio facilities that are owned and operated by a federally-
licensed amateur radio station operator are not included in this category. 
b. 
Radio and television studios are classified in the Office category. 
c. 
Radio and television broadcast facilities that are public safety facilities are classified as Basic 
Utilities. 
