CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-8 
Lot, Double Frontage:  A lot having a frontage on two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot, as 
distinguished from a corner lot. 
Lot, Flagpole:  A lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and where the access to the public or private road 
is by a narrow private right-of-way or driveway, also known as a flagpole. The length of the flagpole shall be 
measured from the frontage line to the nearest point of intersection with the property line parallel or most nearly 
parallel to the frontage line. The area of the flagpole shall not be included determining the site area of a flagpole 
lot. 
Lot Frontage:  That dimension of a lot or a portion of a lot abutting a street right-of-way, excluding the exterior side 
dimension of a corner lot. 
Lot, Interior: A lot other than a corner lot. 
Lot of Record:  A lot which is part of an approved plat, the map of which has been recorded in the office of the 
Mesa County Clerk and Recorder. 
Lot, Reverse Frontage: A double frontage lot which is designed to be developed with the rear yard abutting a major 
street and with the primary means of ingress and egress provided on a minor street. 
Lot Width:  The distance between the side lot lines, measured at the required street setback line. 
Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant 
enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area, 
is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in 
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this regulation. 
Manufactured Home:  Single-family detached housing that is built to the National Manufactured Housing 
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. Section 5401), which became effective June 15, 1976 (i.e. 
HUD approved). The structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body 
feet or more in width or 30 body feet in length, or, when erected on site is 360 or more square feet, and which is 
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used for human occupancy with or without a permanent 
foundation and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. 
Manufactured Home Park:  A unified development of mobile home or manufactured home spaces arranged on a 
tract of land for the purpose of renting or leasing spaces or manufactured homes or mobile homes meeting the 
requirements of these regulations. 
Manufactured Home Park, Existing:  A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities 
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at minimum, the installation of 
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before 
June 18, 1973, the effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by Mesa County. 
Manufactured Home Park, New: A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities 
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation 
of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on 
or after June 18, 1973, the effective date of the floodplain management regulation adopted by Mesa County. 
Manufactured Home Park, Expansion: The preparation of additional sites to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or 
Subdivision by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed 
(including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of 
concrete pads). 
Mesa County Master Plan: includes the Mesa Countywide Land Use Plan, the Mesa County Land Use and 
Development Policies and other plans and policies adopted pursuant to C.R.S. §30-28-108 as elements of a Master 
Plan. 
Mineral:  An inanimate constituent of the earth, in either solid, liquid, or  gaseous state which, when extracted from 
the earth, is usable in its natural  form or is capable of conversion into usable form as a metal, a metallic  compound, 
a chemical, an energy source, a raw material for manufacturing or construction material. This definition does not 
include surface or ground water useable for domestic, agricultural, or industrial purposes, nor does it include 
geothermal resources subject to regulation under C.R.S. §37-90.5-101 et seq. or oil and gas resources subject to 
regulation under C.R.S. §34-60-101, et seq. 
