CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-37 
Figure 4-17: Summary of the Outline Development Plan and Rezone Procedure 
STEP
7
Board of County 
Commissioner
Action
STEP
6
Planning 
Commission
Action
STEP
5
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
5
Required 
Notice
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
 
6. 
Approval Criteria 
In evaluating the proposed request, all of the following criteria shall be considered: 
a. 
The proposed Outline Development Plan is in general conformity with the Mesa County Master 
Plan pursuant to C.R.S. §24-67-104; 
b. 
The Outline Development Plan is necessary to address a unique situation or represents a 
substantial benefit to the County, based on the Purposes set out in Section 1.05; 
c. 
The Outline Development Plan complies with the PUD regulations of Section 5.05 A.; 
d. 
The proposal mitigates any potential adverse impacts to the maximum extent practical; and 
e. 
Public facilities and services shall be available upon completion of the project to serve the subject 
property, while maintaining adequate levels of service to existing development. 
7. 
Effect of Outline Development Plan Approval 
Outline Development Plans shall be approved concurrently with PUD Rezonings. No Outline 
Development Plan may be approved without a PUD Rezoning, and no PUD Rezoning application may 
be approved until an Outline Development Plan for the development has been approved. Approval 
of an Outline Development Plan shall constitute acceptance of the uses, maximum development 
intensities, and general layout proposed for the PUD development. As such, the Outline Development 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Planning Division. 
The Community Development Director shall distribute the application 
to the appropriate review agencies. 
Notice shall be published, mailed and posted in accordance with the 
requirements of Section 3.02 D. 
The Community Development Director shall review the request based 
on the Approval Criteria under Section 4.12 C.6. and shall prepare a 
staff report. The staff report shall state whether or not the application 
complies with all requirements and shall include a recommendation. 
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and shall forward 
a recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners of 
approval, approval with conditions, or denial of the application 
based on the Approval Criteria of Section 4.12 C.6. 
The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public hearing and, 
at the close of the public hearing, act to approve, approve with 
conditions, or deny the application, based on the Approval Criteria of 
Section 4.12 C.6. 
