CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-9 
d. 
Increased probability of erosion to property, as opposed to normal stream bank erosion, because 
of accelerated flood velocities, or direction of floodwaters resulting from the obstruction or 
encroachment; 
e. 
Whether additional public expenditures for increased flood protection may be necessitated, 
such as dike or bridge maintenance; 
f. 
Whether the applicant would obtain an undue advantage compared to later applicants who 
might require a permit; 
g. 
The danger that materials may be swept downstream and cause injury to persons or property; 
and 
h. 
Possibility of contamination downstream from ruptured waste disposal systems, or stored 
treatment-related, toxic chemicals and/or bacteriological substances. 
3. 
The preservation of the efficiency and capacity of the watercourse to transmit and discharge 
floodwaters, and the capacity of the floodplain area to absorb floodwaters. 
D. 
Conditions of Approval  
A Floodplain Development Permit may be approved if the request complies with Floodplain Regulations of 
Section 8.14. The Floodplain Administrator shall be authorized to impose conditions necessary to ensure 
compliance with those standards, including those set out in Section 8.14 K. and the following: 
1. 
Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood 
waters. 
2. 
Limitations on periods of use and operations. 
3. 
Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed restrictions. 
4. 
Requirements of prohibitions of channel modifications, dikes, levees, and other protective measures. 
5. 
Placement of a structure on the site so that it offers minimum obstruction to flood waters by requiring 
that its longitudinal axis be parallel to the direction of the flood waters and on the same line as those 
of adjoining structures, or by requiring greater setbacks from the watercourse than would otherwise 
be required. 
6. 
Location of building envelopes. 
7. 
Flood proofing measures shall be designed consistent with the flood protection elevation for the 
particular area, flood velocities, durations, rates of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and 
other factors associated with the regulatory flood. The administrator shall require that the applicant 
submit a plan or document certified by a registered professional engineer or architect testifying that 
the Flood Proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood elevation and associated flood 
factors for the particular area. Flood Proofing measures may include: 
a. 
Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads, and shutters, or similar methods of construction; 
b. 
Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures; 
c. 
Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation; 
d. 
Use of paints, membranes, or mortars to reduce seepage of water through walls; 
e. 
Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures; 
f. 
Installation of pumping facilities or comparable practices for subsurface drainage systems for 
buildings to relieve external foundation wall flood pressures; 
g. 
Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water pressure from debris; 
h. 
Installation of accessible valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains, which will permit the 
drains to be closed to prevent back-up of sewage and storm waters into the structure; and 
i. 
Location of electrical equipment, circuits, and electrical appliances in a manner which will assure 
they are not subject to flooding and provide protection from inundation of flood waters. 
