CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-36 
the lane.  
2. 
The loop lane and the common area surrounded by the loop lane shall be at least sixty (60) feet wide 
and shall be labeled as an outlot. 
3. 
The loop lane must be surfaced with concrete, not asphalt, and both the loop lane and the common 
area surrounded by the loop lane shall be dedicated to a property owners’ association with 
responsibility for maintaining the loop lane and the common area.  
4. 
Individual driveways leading from the loop lane to each home shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet 
long, as measured between the front of the garage or carport and the closest edge of the loop lane. 
5. 
The design of the loop lane shall permit a passenger vehicle to back out of an individual driveway 
and turn 90 degrees in either direction. The AASHTO turning template for a “P” design vehicle shall be 
used to confirm that this standard is met. 
6. 
Four (4) guest-parking spaces, located in the public right-of-way, are required at the end of the loop.  
7. 
Each residence shall provide and maintain four (4) off-street parking spaces, a maximum of two (2) 
tandem spaces per dwelling unit is allowed. 
E. 
Shared Driveway Standards 
1. 
The shared driveway is designed to provide access to lots where a full public street is not practical or 
economical. Shared driveways shall comply with the following standards: 
a. 
Not more than six (6) single-family lots may access a shared driveway.  
b. 
Shared driveways are allowed in locations approved per the Road Access Policy, provided that 
consideration of Public Right-of-way Dedication Requirements in Section 8.17 does not require a 
public right-of-way to be dedicated and/or a public road to be built by the developer.  
c. 
Shared driveways shall be designed by a Professional Engineer licensed in the State of Colorado, 
and shall meet the following minimum specifications. Shared access within the Grand Junction 
Rural Fire District shall comply with the Fire Department Access requirements of the Grand 
Junction Transportation Engineering Design Standards (TEDS).  
d. 
Minimum Specifications: 
(1) 
Unobstructed driving surface width of twenty (20) feet, exclusive of shoulders; 
(2) 
Proper drainage; 
(3) 
Turning radii at the intersection with public roads are built in accordance with the Road 
Access Policy; 
(4) 
Provision of a turnaround area in compliance with Appendix D. of the International Fire Code 
where shared driveways exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet in length; 
(5) 
An all-weather surface is constructed, meaning a road surface over which emergency and 
typical passenger vehicles can pass at all times and in any weather condition, maintained 
in a dust-free condition (exception: properties within the GJ Rural Fire District where TEDS is 
adopted must be finished with hot mix asphaltic concrete or concrete pavement over a 
flexible base); and  
(6) 
Paved aprons are constructed at intersections with paved public roads where required by 
the Road Access Policy within the Urbanized Area of the Mesa County Municipal Separate 
Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) Authorization (Stormwater Urbanized Area). 
e. 
 Each residence shall provide and maintain four (4) off-street parking spaces, a maximum of two 
(2) tandem spaces per dwelling unit is allowed. 
f. 
The shared driveway shall be contained within a tract dedicated to the Home Owner’s 
Association or an easement and maintained by the Home Owner’s Association or the owners of 
the parcels or lots that abut the shared driveway. 
g. 
Multi-purpose easements shall be dedicated contiguous to the shared driveway for utility service 
lines. Alternative provisions for utilities must be approved by the utility providers. 
