CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-37 
SECTION 8.17 | STREETS AND ROADS  
A. 
Standards  
1. 
When a development plan proposes improvements to a street or road that requires rights-of-way in 
excess of the minimum requirements of the Mesa County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge 
Construction, additional rights-of-way will be required from the developer to accommodate the 
proposed plan.  
2. 
Streets, roads and pedestrian/bicycle paths shall be designed as shown in any adopted Transportation 
or Circulation Plan and constructed in conformance with the current Mesa County Standard 
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and its appendix, the Road Access Policy. All new 
public or private roads constructed within the Grand Valley Airshed shall be paved. Farm service and 
canal/ditch/drainage maintenance roads are exempt from this paving requirement.  
3. 
Access and construction specifications shall comply with either urban or rural improvements, as 
specified in the Mesa County Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and its 
appendix, the Road Access Policy. 
B. 
Public Rights-of-Way Dedication Criteria 
1. 
Since the need for public rights-of-way are different for every developing property or area, the 
following criteria will be considered when subdivision or re-subdivision of properties is proposed: 
a. 
The development includes the construction of new roadways that will be petitioned for 
acceptance into the County road system. 
b. 
The development application proposes more than six (6) lots on one access or more than six (6) 
lots on a shared driveway. 
c. 
The property that is the subject of the development application is able to develop additional lots 
in the future according to the existing zoning on the property or designated future land use. 
d. 
Adjacent properties are currently physically or legally landlocked from public rights-of-way.  
e. 
Adjacent properties are otherwise constrained by access regulations from direct access on 
existing public rights-of-way. 
f. 
Public rights-of-way is necessary on the subject property to provide development improvements 
to the surrounding area either presently or in the future. 
g. 
Adopted transportation plan(s) show anticipated road circulation that involves the subject 
parcel. 
2. 
The Mesa County Public Works Department will consider the above criteria prior to requiring 
dedication of public rights-of-way. Required rights-of-way connections to adjacent properties shall be 
located as effectively as possible, considering topography, environmental constraints, and adopted 
policies and regulations. 
3. 
If the developer believes that dedication of public rights-of-way internal to the subdivision would not 
be beneficial to the current or future property owners or to the planned development of the area, 
then the developer or their engineer shall prepare a report for consideration by the Public Works 
Department certifying why public rights-of-way should not be required. 
4. 
The applicant may be required to submit a conceptual lay out of the subdivision at the density allowed 
by the zoning on the property or the Future Land Use classification. 
C. 
Improvements  
Limited improvements to adjacent roads shall be required of all types of development (excluding Property 
Line Adjustments and Residential Site Plans) that are not covered by the Transportation Impact Fee 
regulation (i.e., local roads).  
