CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-27 
(3) 
The site shall be revegetated in compliance with the property owner’s specifications or to a 
minimum of 70% of predevelopment vegetative cover whichever is less.  
i. Utility Interconnection 
j. Even if no final agreement is yet in place, Applicant shall provide evidence of a utility company’s 
actual interest in entering into a contract to receive energy. An Interconnection agreement with 
final details must be submitted prior to construction of the facility.  
k. Insurance  
(i) 
The owner/operator shall provide proof of general liability insurance with commercially 
reasonable amounts of coverage for the permitted facility. Facility owners/operators shall 
maintain such insurance in place through all times the facility is in operation.  
3. 
Approval Criteria 
a. 
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall consider conditions of approval and all applicable 
requirements of this LDC, including, but not limited to: 
b. 
The health, safety and welfare of the citizens of this jurisdiction will be protected and served; 
c. 
The facility will not unreasonably impact the physical, economic, or social environment, except 
as permitted in Chapter 6 Use Regulations as applicable.  
d. 
When an impact is expected to occur, reasonable modifications and programs and other 
reasonable mitigating actions will be implemented and maintained to minimize the degree of 
adversity of the impact; 
e. 
There exists a need, or a reasonably foreseeable need, for the facility as proposed. 
SECTION 6.03 | ACCESSORY STRUCTURES 
No accessory structures shall be allowed on the subject parcel until after all required permits and approvals for the 
principal use, structure or activity have been obtained except as provided below: 
A. 
Exception for Residential Accessory Structures 
One accessory structure may be allowed without obtaining all required permits and approvals for the 
principal residential use as follows: 
1. 
The use of the accessory structure shall be limited to storage of personal items prior to house 
construction; personal recreational equipment; and/or storage of equipment to maintain the 
property.  
2. 
Rural Zoning Districts 
a. 
One (1) accessory structure may be allowed to be constructed without a principal structure 
(residence) on property that is one (1) acre or greater in size.  
b. 
Properties with an agricultural principal use are not subject to the limitation of one (1) accessory 
structure if the structures are clearly related to the agricultural use, e.g. barns and other out-
buildings.  
3. 
Urban Zoning Districts 
One (1) accessory structure may be allowed to be constructed without a principal structure 
(residence) in an urban zoning district that is one (1) acre or greater in size and that allows single-family 
residential use.  
B. 
Dimensional and Operational Standards  
The standards of this section shall apply in all districts unless otherwise expressly stated. 
1. 
Height 
The maximum height of accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed two (2) stories or twenty-five 
(25) feet, except within the I-1, I-2, or Rural Zoning Districts. 
