CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-50 
C. 
Approval Criteria  
1. 
Rights-of-way Vacations 
a. 
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall not: 
(1) 
Create any landlocked parcels or restrict access to any parcel so that access is 
unreasonable or economically prohibitive; 
(2) 
Negatively impact adjacent properties;  
(3) 
Reduce the quality of public services to any parcel of land or negatively affect utility access 
or utility distribution networks; 
(4) 
Be inconsistent with any adopted transportation plan; 
(5) 
Affect the historic movement of livestock; or 
(6) 
Create a circuitous alternate route for area residents or other members of the public; 
b. 
A vacation of a rights-of-way may be approved on a Subdivision Plat as long as the above criteria 
are met, and: 
(1) 
The rights-of-way being vacated is entirely within the plat being created; and 
(2) 
Existing utilities are accommodated with sufficient easements. 
2. 
Street Renaming 
In evaluating a proposal to rename a street, all of the following criteria must be met: 
a. 
The proposed new name for the street is not similar to the name of an existing street in the County 
or any town or city in the County that it would create public confusion as to the location of the 
street; and 
b. 
The proposed renaming will not otherwise create any continuing confusion to drivers, public 
safety personnel, or area residents as to the location of the street. 
D. 
Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Board of County Commissioners shall be made to the courts, as provided by 
law.  
SECTION 4.21 | WRITTEN INTERPRETATIONS 
A. 
Applicability  
When clarification is requested, the Director shall be authorized to make written interpretations concerning 
any section of this LDC. 
B. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-26 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of a request for Written Interpretation. 
Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below. 
Figure 4-26: Summary of the Written Interpretation Procedure 
STEP
3
Community 
Development 
Director Action
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
 
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
A property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Community Development Director.  
Within thirty (30) days, the Community Development Director shall 
render a final interpretation of the request and place the place the 
interpretation in the official record of interpretations. 
