CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-36 
proposed planned development project would not negatively affect surrounding property and uses and/or 
that the PUD would result in a greater benefit to the County than would development under conventional 
zoning district regulations. 
B. 
General Procedure 
The following are the application steps required for a PUD. These application steps may be processed 
individually or combined upon approval of the Director. 
1. 
Outline Development Plan (Section 4.12 C.); 
2. 
Final Plan (Section 4.12 D.);  
3. 
Final Plat (Section 4.12 E.). 
C. 
Outline Development Plan and Rezoning 
1. 
Applicability 
The purpose of an Outline Development Plan is to demonstrate general conformity with the Mesa 
County Master Plan, and coordination of improvements within and among individually platted 
parcels, sections or phases of a development prior to the approval of a final plat. At Outline 
Development Plan, zoning for the entire property or for each “pod” designated for development on 
the plan is established. This step is recommended for larger, more diverse projects that are expected 
to be developed over a long period of time. Through this process, the general pattern of development 
is established with a range of densities assigned to individual “pods” that will be the subject of future, 
more detailed planning. 
2. 
Neighborhood Meeting  
The applicant shall hold a meeting with area property owners after the Department completes a 
review of the Outline Development Plan. Property owners within the notification area shall be invited 
to the meeting, which will be held at a reasonable time to encourage maximum participation. The 
purpose of the meeting is for the applicant to discuss the application with area property owners and 
to identify issues that may need to be resolved to meet the approval criteria in this LDC and any other 
adopted County regulations. A written narrative describing the meeting attendance and results must 
be submitted to the Director prior to Outline Development Plan approval. 
3. 
Additional Notice  
In accordance with the requirements of Section 3.02 D., C.R.S. §30-28-133(10) and §24-65.5-103, the 
Outline Development Plan shall have submitted with it certification that the notice of the application 
has been sent to the mineral estate owners, and shall include the names and addresses of all surface 
owners, mineral owners, and lessees of mineral owners to whom notices of an application have been 
sent as their names may appear upon the plats or records in the County Clerk and Recorder’s office 
and as their most recent addresses may appear in a telephone or other directory of general use in 
the area of the property or on the tax records of the County. 
4. 
Phasing 
If construction is planned in phases, a phasing plan and schedule must be submitted for review by 
staff and review agencies as a part of the development application. 
5. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-17 identifies the application steps from which apply to the review of Outline Development 
Plan and Rezone applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted 
below. 
