CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-9 
required for the use served. 
(3) 
Shared Parking Study 
Those wishing to use shared parking as a means of satisfying off-street parking requirements 
shall submit an analysis to the Director that clearly demonstrates the feasibility of shared 
parking. The study must address, at a minimum, the size and type of the proposed 
development, the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover, and the 
anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing off-street parking 
spaces.  
(4) 
Agreement for Shared Parking 
A shared parking plan will be enforced through written agreement among all owners of 
record. The agreement must have a minimum term of ten (10) years. An attested copy of 
the agreement between the owners of record must be submitted to the Director for 
recordation. Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a building 
permit for any use to be served by the off-site parking area. A shared parking agreement 
may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces will be provided, in accordance 
with Section 8.01 B. 
4. 
Violations 
Violations of an approved Alternative Parking Plan constitute a violation of the Land Development 
Code and will be subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions of Chapter 11. 
SECTION 8.02 | LANDSCAPING AND BUFFERING 
The purpose of this Section is to enhance the aesthetic appeal of new development. Landscaping reduces heat 
and glare, facilitates movement of traffic within parking areas, shades cars and parking surfaces reducing local 
and ambient temperatures, buffers and screens cars from adjacent properties, promotes natural percolation of 
surface waters, improves air quality, buffers and screens potentially incompatible uses from one another, and 
conserves the value of property and neighborhoods within the County.  
A. 
General Landscape Standards 
1. 
This Section applies to all new development within the Urban Zoning Districts and for non-residential 
development along State Highways or arterial roads. Conditional Use Permits may be subject to this 
section as deemed appropriate by the Director. 
2. 
 Landscape Plan Requirement  
a. 
Landscape plans shall be stamped by a licensed landscape architect. Inspection and 
compliance with approved landscape plan must be certified by a licensed landscape architect 
prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Inspection and compliance with approved 
landscape plan must be certified by a licensed landscape architect prior to issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy. 
3. 
 Acceptable Plant Material 
a. 
Vegetation must be suitable for Mesa County’s climate and soils. 
b. 
The Director may allow the use of any plant if sufficient information is provided to show suitability 
including salt tolerance, sun and shade requirements based on planting locations, growth habit, 
etc.  
