CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-16 
the care givers also reside at the site or the site is staffed twenty-four (24) hours a day. 
2. 
Accessory Uses 
 Accessory uses commonly associated with Group Living are recreational facilities and parking of 
vehicles for occupants and staff. 
3. 
Examples 
 The Group Living category is further broken down into the following specific uses: 
a. 
Assisted Living Facility 
 A residence for up to eight (8) unrelated individuals, none of which are receiving on-site medical 
or psychological treatment, therapy, or counseling, but some or all of whom are receiving on-site 
physical assistance with day-to-day living activities. The limit of eight (8) individuals is exclusive of 
staff.  Provided that the use otherwise complies with this definition and size restriction, an Assisted 
Living Facility may include any of the following:  
(1) 
A nonprofit group home for the aged or an owner-occupied group home for the aged;  
(2) 
A state-licensed group home for the developmentally disabled; and 
(3) 
A state-licensed group home for persons with mental illness. 
b. 
Treatment Facility 
 A residence for up to eight (8) unrelated individuals, some or all of whom are receiving on-site 
medical or psychological treatment, therapy, or counseling. The limit of eight (8) individuals is 
exclusive of staff. Provided that the use otherwise complies with this definition and size restriction, 
a Treatment Facility may include any of the following: 
(1) 
A nursing home; 
(2) 
A nursing facility; 
(3) 
Institutions providing life care; 
(4) 
A state-licensed group home for the developmentally disabled; 
(5) 
A state-licensed group home for persons with mental illness; 
(6) 
An adult day treatment facility; and 
(7) 
A physical/mental rehabilitation home. 
c. 
Small Group Living Facility 
 A residence for up to eight (8) unrelated individuals, none of which are receiving on-site medical 
or psychological treatment, therapy, counseling, or physical assistance with day-to-day living 
activities. The restriction to eight (8) individuals is exclusive of staff.  Provided that the use otherwise 
complies with this definition and size restriction, a Small Group Living Facility use may include, 
without limitation:  
(1) 
A family care home; 
(2) 
A state-licensed residential child care facility; 
(3) 
An adult foster home; 
(4) 
A family foster home; and  
(5) 
A receiving home. 
d. 
Large Group Living Facility 
 Any residence for more than eight (8) unrelated individuals, and any residence for up to eight (8) 
unrelated individuals that does not meet the definition of “Treatment Facility,” “Assisted Living 
Facility” or “Small Group Living Facility.” Provided that the use complies with this definition and 
size restriction of this definition, a Large Group Living Facility may include, without limitation:  
