CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-10 
4. 
 Minimum Plant Requirements 
TABLE 8-5: LANDSCAPE PLANT REQUIREMENTS 
Zoning of Proposed Development 
Landscape Requirement 
Location of 
Landscaping  
Single-family Residential Subdivision 
(except when only one additional 
lot is created or when located in a 
Rural Zone District or zoned URR, 
RSF-E and RSF-R) 
One tree per forty (40) linear feet of street frontage, with no 
more than fifty (50) percent of any one variety. One shrub per 
one hundred (100) square feet of landscaped area. 
Street frontages 
abutting roadways 
designated as an 
arterial or major 
collector 
Urban Zone Districts (Multi-family 
and Nonresidential Uses) 
One tree per 2,500 square feet of improved area, with no more 
than fifty (50) percent of any one variety. One shrub per 300 
square feet of improved area 
Street frontage, 
parking lots, and 
required buffers 
I-1, I-2 
One tree per 3,000 square feet of improved area, with no more 
than twenty (20) percent of the total being ornamental trees or 
evergreens. One shrub per 400 square feet of improved area.  
Street frontage, 
parking lots, and 
required buffers  
5. 
Minimum plant size requirements 
a. 
Shade tree, two (2) inch caliper (measured (6) six inches above root ball) at time of planting. If 
two (2) inch caliper trees are not available, the Director may approve the installation of smaller 
trees, provided the proportional difference in caliper inches is compensated for by installing 
additional trees.  
b. 
Ornamental tree, one and one half (1 1/2) inch caliper (measured six (6) inches above root ball) 
at time of planting.  
c. 
Evergreen tree, six (6) feet tall at time of planting.  
d. 
Deciduous shrub, five (5) gallon container. 
e. 
Evergreen shrub, five (5) gallon container. 
f. 
Perennials and ground covers, one (1) gallon container. 
g. 
Turf mix, native grasses and wild flower mix are the only vegetation that may be planted as seed. 
6. 
Irrigation 
Plant selection shall emphasize drought-tolerant plant species and shall limit the use of high water use 
plant species. All required landscapes, with the exception of dry landscapes, shall include a designed 
irrigation system.  
7. 
Fire Hydrants and Utility Facilities 
a. 
A three (3) foot clear space shall be maintained around the circumference of fire hydrants.  
b. 
Design of landscaped beds should accommodate access and maintenance of utility facilities. 
8. 
Preservation of Significant Landscape Features 
Significant landscape features, areas of healthy native vegetation, natural environments or habitats 
to be preserved, shall not be required to meet the plant coverage or plant type requirements.  
9. 
Sight Distance.  
All vegetation, fences, walls and berms shall be designed and maintained so that there is no site 
distance hazard nor road or pedestrian hazard. 
B. 
Parking Lots. 
1. 
 Interior Landscaping Requirement 
a. 
The interior of all parking lots shall be landscaped as follows: 
(1) 
One parking lot island, parallel to parking spaces, is required for each twenty (20) parking 
spaces; 
