CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-11 
b. 
The entire length of the fence or wall shall be landscaped in compliance with the Landscape 
and Buffer Standards of this LDC (Section 8.02). 
c. 
No outdoor storage area shall be placed or maintained within a required setback unless allowed 
through conditions in the use permit. 
d. 
Stored items shall not project above the fence or wall used to screen the material unless allowed 
through conditions in the use permit. 
e. 
All automotive waste or petroleum waste shall be controlled and not permitted to seep or leak 
into the soil. 
2. 
Exemptions:   
Accumulation and storage of junk and/or unlicensed/inoperable vehicles may be allowed without 
planning approval when all of the applicable criteria below have been met:  
a. 
No more than one (1) intact inoperable/unlicensed vehicle can be kept or stored outdoors in 
ordinary view upon any property that is not approved as a junk yard, salvage yard, industrial 
storage, or has a use permit that allows additional storage of junk and/or inoperable/unlicensed 
vehicles. This vehicle allowance includes trailers, campers, and other such vehicles that would 
otherwise require registration or licensing, and does not include vehicles that have been 
dismantled or wrecked as they are considered junk and require removal or screening.  
b. 
All areas of a property that are subject to ordinary view must be kept free of junk, rubbish, non-
contained trash, garbage, and debris. Accumulations of junk, including more than one 
unlicensed/inoperable vehicle must be legally removed or maintained in a screened storage 
area that is visually shielded or obscured from ordinary view by means of a solid fence, evergreen 
trees or shrubbery, an enclosed structure, or other appropriate means provided that the outdoor 
storage area is for personal use and not commercial use. Tarp covering is not sufficient by itself. 
The screened storage area should not store uncontained trash, garbage, rubbish, or debris.  
c. 
No screened outdoor storage area shall be placed or maintained within a required setback nor 
should the area contain trash, garbage, or debris. In addition, screened items shall not project 
above the fence or wall used to screen the junk material, except for vehicles or items that are 
resting on the ground but have a height more than six (6) feet tall but less than twelve (12) feet 
tall.  
d. 
The screened area must not exceed more than five (5) percent of the total parcel size up to a 
maximum of twenty-two thousand (22,000) square feet or approximately one-half (1/2) acre.  
e. 
There shall be no limit on the number of active or serviceable agricultural vehicles or equipment 
on an agricultural parcel of land regardless of whether such vehicles have current registration or 
license plates, if that property owner or user is engaged in an agricultural operation that is 
historical, traditional, legitimate, and reasonable as protected under the County's Right to Farm 
and Ranch policy and require such vehicles for operation of that practice.  
f. 
Active agricultural operations may have scrap iron "bone yards", lumber stock piles or other 
essential collections in ordinary view if necessary for operations and stockpiled in a maintained 
and orderly fashion.  
3. 
Used or Waste Tires  
a. 
Used or waste tires may only be legally disposed of in a County-designated landfill or solid waste 
disposal facility authorized to accept used or waste tires for storage or disposal, provided, 
however, that no more than fifty (50) used or waste tires may be kept on property in any Rural 
Zone District (unless accessory to an ensilage pit), and no more than ten (10) used or waste tires 
may be kept on property in any Urban Residential Zoning Districts. 
b. 
Used or waste tires shall not be used as construction material unless a building permit has been 
issued by the Mesa County Building Department for such construction. 
N. 
Mining and Extractive Uses  
