CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-41 
D. 
Approval Criteria 
In evaluating the proposal, the request shall be consistent with the General Approval Criteria under Section 
3.09 and the following shall be considered: 
1. 
Street locations shall not be changed; and 
2. 
The proposal will not create a nonconformity nor increase the degree to which any structure is 
nonconforming. 
E. 
 Appeals  
Appeals of decisions of the Director may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance 
with the procedures of Section 4.02. 
SECTION 4.14 | REGISTER OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS 
A. 
Applicability  
The Mesa County Register of Historic Landmarks is established to recognize the historic, architectural and 
cultural heritage of Mesa County; to increase public appreciation of Mesa County’s unique heritage; and 
to enable owners of Historic Resources in the County to take advantage of opportunities, benefits and 
programs that may be available to assist in the recognition and preservation of the historic properties. 
Designation as a Historic Landmark will not impart additional regulatory control over the development of 
historic properties, i.e. the design of additions, alterations or new construction, or demolition, with respect 
to impacts on historic character or integrity.  
B. 
County Register of Historic Landmarks Established 
1. 
The County Register of Historic Landmarks (County Register) is hereby established, and is contained in 
Appendix G of this LDC. Historic buildings, structures, sites, objects or districts may be listed on the 
County Register upon designation by the Board of County Commissioners. 
2. 
All properties listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Properties 
are eligible for inclusion on the County Register but are not designated until approval is obtained 
pursuant to the requirements of this Section.  
C. 
Designation of Historic Structures, Sites and Districts  
1. 
The Board of County Commissioners pursuant to this LDC:  
a. 
May designate as historic an individual building, structure, site, object or other feature, or an 
integrated group of structures or features on a lot or site, having a special historical, architectural 
or cultural value, subject to the qualifications listed in Section 4.14 E.; or  
b. 
May designate as a historic district an area containing a number of buildings, structures or sites 
having a special historical, architectural or cultural value, subject to the qualifications listed in 
Section 4.14 E.  
2. 
Each such designation shall include a description of the characteristics of the building, structure, site, 
object or historic district that justify its designation and a description of the particular features that 
should be preserved, and shall include a legal description of the location and boundaries of the 
building, structure, site, object or district. 
3. 
No individual structure or site shall be designated without the consent of all owners of record. Historic 
Districts may be designated with the consent of the owners of record of at least sixty (60) percent of 
the contributing properties.  
4. 
Properties within municipalities may be listed on the County Register, following consultation and 
coordination with the municipality. The listing of properties within municipalities on the County Register 
shall not confer on Mesa County the authority to regulate the land use or grant any development 
approvals or permits for those properties, except where otherwise allowed by law. 
D. 
Procedure 
Figure 4-20 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Registration of Historic Places 
