CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-7 
Improvement: Any man-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed upon, or is affixed to, real estate. 
Junk:  Used, old, or second-hand or scrap: machinery; dismantled machinery, equipment, vehicles, and parts; 
ferrous and non-ferrous metals; paper or paper products; fibers or fabrics; wood or wood products; tires or tire parts; 
manufactured rubber or plastic products; tools; appliances; implements or portions thereof; glass, clay, or porcelain 
products; trash or similar materials; cordage, building materials, dismantled machinery or other waste that has been 
abandoned from its original use. 
Junk Yard: Any lot, site, yard, building, structure or other place, covered or uncovered, used for any one or all of 
the following purposes: 
1. 
The collection, storage, keeping, abandonment or sale of junk whether of value or valueless. 
2. 
The collection, storage, keeping, abandonment or sale of metal parts or scrap metals or any other scrap 
materials whether of the same source or kind; and/or, 
3. 
The collection, storage, keeping, abandonment, wrecking, salvage, sale or exchange or abandonment of 
automobiles or parts thereof or of any other machinery or parts thereof, except as otherwise may be 
permitted in these regulations. 
Kennel:  Any place or premises used in whole or in part for the purpose of keeping, boarding, breeding or sale of 
domesticated dogs and/or cats in which six (6) or more domestic animals exist, and all of which exceed four (4) 
months in age, to include animal pounds and shelters. 
Land Surveyor: A land surveyor licensed and registered in the State of Colorado. 
Large Construction Project: Any project hauling four thousand five hundred (4500) tons of material within a one (1) 
month time frame.   
Ldn: Interior Day-Night Average Noise Level 
Ldn Contour:  A line linking together a series of points of equal cumulative noise exposure based on the Ldn metric. 
Such contours are based on aircraft flight patterns, number of daily aircraft operations by type of aircraft and time 
of day, noise characteristics of each aircraft, and typical runway use patterns. 
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's official revision of an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), or Flood 
Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), or both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical 
measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the 
modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood 
Hazard Area (SFHA). 
Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA’s modification of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown 
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. 
Lot:  A platted parcel of land intended to be separately owned, developed, and otherwise used as a unit. 
Lot Lines:  The property lines along the edge of a lot or site. 
Lot Line, Front:  The shortest lot line of all street lot lines. If all street lot lines are the same length, then all shall be 
considered front lot lines. 
Lot Line, Rear:  A lot line that is opposite a front lot line, but which does not abut a street. A triangular lot has two side 
lot lines but no rear lot line. For other irregularly shaped lots, the rear lot line is all lot lines that are most nearly opposite 
the front lot line.  
Lot Line, Side:  Any lot line except a street or rear lot line.     
Lot Line, Street:  Any lot line that abuts a street. Street lot line does not include lot lines that abut an alley. On a corner 
lot, there are two (or more) street lot lines. Street lot lines can include front lot lines and side lot lines.  
Lot Area/Size:  The total horizontal area included within lot lines. 
Lot, Corner:  A lot located at the intersection of and abutting two or more streets. 
Lot Depth: The average distance from the front lot line to the rear lot line, measured in the general direction of the 
side lot lines, that is, from the direction the lot faces and is addressed by. 
