CHAPTER 6 | USE REGULATIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
6-19 
that it is compatible with the neighborhood.  Abandonment shall only be determined by the 
Board of County Commissioners after the owner has had notice and an opportunity to be heard.  
s. 
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)   
(1) 
No person shall construct or alter a telecommunications tower or facility without a permit 
issued by the FAA and without having first obtained the approval of the Decision Maker.  To 
obtain such review, the applicant shall submit FAA Form 7460-1, Notice of Proposed 
Construction or Alteration; 
(2) 
Form 7460-1 shall not be required for the following: 
(a) An amateur radio antenna if owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur 
radio operator or used exclusively for a receive-only antenna; 
(b) Any existing tower and antenna provided a building permit was issued for a tower or 
antenna prior to the adoption of this LDC; 
(c) Any emergency telecommunications facilities used exclusively for emergency 
services including, but not limited to, police, fire, and operation of governmental 
entities; or  
(d) Any antennae used for FCC licensees engaged in AM, FM, or television broadcasting. 
T. 
Outdoor Retail Sales & Storage 
Outdoor retail sales and storage uses within Nonresidential Zoning Districts and Rural Communities (not 
applicable to Rural Zoning Districts) shall be subject to the following standards. 
1. 
The stored materials shall be located behind a landscaped area meeting the buffer requirements of 
parking lots in Section 8.02. 
2. 
No materials shall be displayed or stored within a required landscape area. 
3. 
Not more than one (1) elevated display pad, which may be elevated up to three (3) feet in height, 
shall be permitted per one hundred (100) feet of street frontage. 
U. 
Winery, Distillery or Brewery 
Wineries, distilleries or breweries located in Rural Zoning Districts shall be permitted to include limited retail 
sales and restaurants (vintner’s restaurant) as an accessory use, subject to the following conditions: 
1. 
Restaurants shall be accessory to the use and shall meet all applicable requirements for food 
preparation and service and obtain all necessary state and local permits.  
2. 
Retail sales shall be accessory to the use and shall be goods that are predominantly related to the 
primary business and/or local products (e.g. food products, arts and crafts). 
V. 
Self-Service Storage/Mini-Warehouse  
1. 
Self-service storage or mini-warehouse, uses within the Rural Zoning Districts, are permitted only within 
the six (6) Rural Communities of Loma, Mack, Whitewater, Mesa, Powderhorn, and Gateway.  
2. 
Indoor storage in the Rural Zoning Districts is not limited to the Rural Communities. 
W. 
Oil, Gas, and Forestry Support Services 
1. 
Land uses that provide support service for forestry and oil and gas drilling operations shall be subject 
to Conditional Use Permit review.  If the use is requested for a period of less than one (1) year, a 
Temporary Use Permit shall be applied for with a Major Site Plan application.  The following information 
shall be submitted with an application for a conditional use permit or major site plan:  
a. 
The project narrative shall include: 
(1) 
The need for the facility in the location proposed including the lack of suitably zoned land 
in the project area, and 
(2) 
The adequacy of roads and access to the site, including the condition and construction of 
