CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-30 
District. All development that is not specifically exempt from Floodplain Development Permit 
requirements shall require a Floodplain Development Permit in the Flood Fringe District. 
c. 
Prohibited Uses 
The following uses shall be prohibited in the Flood Fringe District: 
(1) 
Any residential structure or substantial improvement in which the lowest floor, including the 
basement, is lower than one foot above the elevation of the 100-year flood; 
(2) 
Junk yards, salvage yards and wrecking yards of any kind; and 
(3) 
New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other 
nonresidential structure in which the lowest floor (including basement) is lower than one foot 
above the elevation of the 100-year flood or not flood proofed below a flood protection 
elevation of one foot above the elevation of the 100-year flood together with attendant 
utility and sanitary facilities. 
K. 
Floodplain Development Permit Conditions  
The Floodplain Administrator shall require all of the following: 
1. 
New construction or Substantial Improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or 
lateral movement of the structure due to hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads; be constructed with 
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage; and constructed by methods and practices 
to minimize flood damage. 
2. 
All manufactured homes shall be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral 
movement and capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring 
may include, but are not limited to use of over-the-top or frame-to-ground anchors. This requirement 
is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. Specific 
anchoring requirements are: 
a. 
Over-the-top ties at each of the four (4) corners of the manufactured home, with two additional 
ties per side at intermediate locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty (50) feet long 
requiring one additional tie; 
b. 
Frame ties at each corner of the home with five additional ties per side at intermediate points, 
with manufactured homes less than fifty (50) feet long required four additional ties per side; 
c. 
That all components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a force of four thousand 
eight hundred (4,800) pounds each; and 
d. 
Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored. 
3. 
New and replacement sewer and water systems shall be designed to minimize infiltration. 
4. 
All new construction and substantial improvement shall be constructed at least 1-foot above the base 
flood elevation for all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and 
other service facilities for all residential buildings, including manufactured homes, constructed, 
substantially improved and/or reconstructed due to substantially damage, throughout the Special 
Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevations have been determined on the FIRM or in the Flood 
Insurance Study. 
5. 
Required utility conditions shall be as follows: 
a. 
All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate 
infiltration of flood waters into the system. 
b. 
New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate 
infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharge from the systems, into flood waters. 
c. 
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid their impairment or contamination from 
flooding. 
6. 
Required subdivision conditions shall be as follows: 
