CHAPTER 8 | DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
8-33 
2. 
Critical Facilities are classified under the following categories: (1) Essential Services; (2) Hazardous 
Materials; (3) At-risk Populations; and (4) Vital to Restoring Normal Services.  
a. 
Essential services facilities include public safety, emergency response, emergency medical, 
designated emergency shelters, communications, public utility plant facilities, and transportation 
lifelines.  
These facilities consist of: 
(1) 
Public safety (police stations, fire and rescue stations, emergency vehicle and equipment 
storage, and emergency operation centers);  
(2) 
Emergency medical (hospitals, ambulance service centers, urgent care centers having 
emergency treatment functions, and non-ambulatory surgical structures but excluding 
clinics, doctor’s offices, and non-urgent care medical structures that do not provide these 
functions);  
(3) 
Designated emergency shelters;  
(4) 
Communications (main hubs for telephone, broadcasting equipment for cable systems, 
satellite dish systems, cellular systems, television, radio, and other emergency warning 
systems, but excluding towers, poles, lines, cables, and conduits);  
(5) 
Public utility plant facilities for generation and distribution (hubs, treatment plants, 
substations and pumping stations for water, power and gas, but not including towers, poles, 
power lines, buried pipelines, transmission lines, distribution lines, and service lines); and  
(6) 
Air transportation lifelines (airports (municipal and larger), helicopter pads and structures 
serving emergency functions, and associated infrastructure (aviation control towers, air 
traffic control centers, and emergency equipment aircraft hangars).  
Specific exemptions to this category include wastewater treatment plants (WWTP), non-
potable water treatment and distribution systems, and hydroelectric power generating 
plants and related appurtenances.  
Public utility plant facilities may be exempted if it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction 
of Mesa County that the facility is an element of a redundant system for which service will 
not be interrupted during a flood. At a minimum, it shall be demonstrated that redundant 
facilities are available (either owned by the same utility or available through an 
intergovernmental agreement or other contract) and connected, the alternative facilities 
are either located outside of the 100-year floodplain or are compliant with the provisions of 
this Section, and an operations plan is in effect that states how redundant systems will 
provide service to the affected area in the event of a flood. Evidence of ongoing 
redundancy shall be provided to Mesa County on an as-needed basis upon request.  
b. 
Hazardous materials facilities include facilities that produce or store highly volatile, flammable, 
explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials. These facilities may include: 
(1) 
Chemical and pharmaceutical plants (chemical plant, pharmaceutical manufacturing);  
(2) 
Laboratories containing highly volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive 
materials;  
(3) 
Refineries;  
(4) 
Hazardous waste storage and disposal sites; and  
(5) 
Above-ground gasoline or propane storage or sales centers.  
Facilities shall be determined to be Critical Facilities if they produce or store materials in 
excess of threshold limits. If the owner of a facility is required by the Occupational Safety 
and Health Administration (OSHA) to keep a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) on file for 
any chemicals stored or used in the work place, AND the chemical(s) is stored in quantities 
equal to or greater than the Threshold Planning Quantity (TPQ) for that chemical, then that 
facility shall be considered to be a Critical Facility. The TPQ for these chemicals is: either five 
