CHAPTER 4| ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURES 
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
4-47
Figure 4-23: Summary of the Stormwater Construction Permit Procedure 
STEP
5
Stormwater 
Administrator 
Action
STEP
3
Application 
Review
STEP
2
Application 
Submittal
STEP
1
Pre-
Application 
Meeting
STEP
4
C.
Approval Criteria
In determining whether to approve a Stormwater Construction Permit, the Stormwater Administrator shall 
consider if the Construction Site shall meet the Stormwater Discharge Limitations of Section 1503.1 of the 
Stormwater Management Manual, as amended, and the Stormwater Regulations of Section 8.22.
D.
Appeals
Appeals of the Stormwater Administrator’s decision on the Stormwater Construction Permit application 
may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the procedures of Section 
4.18 D, Appeals of Administrative Decisions.
E.
Lapse of Approval
Earthwork, in compliance with the approved Stormwater Construction Permit, shall commence on a site 
that has an approved Stormwater Construction Permit within one (1) year from the date of issuance. If 
construction has not been commenced during the one (1) year period and diligently pursued, the permit 
shall lapse and be of no further effect. An extension of a Stormwater Construction Permit shall require 
review and approval of a new permit.
SECTION 4.18 | STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION PERMIT VARIANCE 
A.
Applicability
This section sets out the required review and approval procedures for Stormwater Construction Permit
Variances. The variance from permitting does not relieve the owner from meeting discharge limitations
described in the Mesa County Stormwater Management Manual, as amended and the Stormwater
Regulations in Section 8.22.
B.
Procedure
Figure 4-24 identifies the application steps which apply to the review of Stormwater Construction Permit
Variance applications. Additions or modifications to the general review procedures are noted below.
The property owner or the owner’s authorized agent may schedule 
and attend a Pre-Application Meeting before filing an application 
(Section 3.02 A.). 
A property owner or the owner’s authorized agent shall submit an 
application to the Stormwater Administrator. The submitted 
application shall include all materials specified in the checklist 
provided by the Stormwater Administrator. 
The Stormwater Administrator shall distribute the application to the 
appropriate review agencies. 
The Stormwater Administrator shall make a decision based on the 
Approval Criteria under Section 17 C. The decision shall be in writing 
and shall clearly state the reasons the application has been 
approved, approved with conditions or denied. 
