CHAPTER 12 | DEFINITIONS  
Mesa County 2020 Land Development Code 
12-3 
Business Residence: Dwelling unit(s) on the site of a nonresidential use.  
Building: Anything constructed, erected or placed, which requires a permanent location on the ground or is 
anchored to the ground, or attached to something having a permanent location on the ground. This includes, but 
is not limited to advertising signs (on- or off-premise), antennas, satellite dishes, wind generators, and buildings, 
whether for storage or occupancy. It does not include fences that are less than seven (7) feet in height, poles, lines 
or other transmission or distribution facilities of public utilities or services. 
Building, Principal: The building or structure that is occupied by the principal use. 
C.R.S.: Colorado Revised Statutes 
Campground: An outdoor facility designed for temporary overnight accommodation in tents or shelters for 
recreation, education, or vacation purposes. A campground is a principal use of land in this LDC. Common 
accessory uses may include shower or toilet facilities or small retail sales of camping-related items operated solely 
for the benefit of those staying in the camping area. 
Camping:  The overnight use of camping equipment or facilities such as tents, tarpaulins or temporary shelters or the 
overnight use of temporary cooking and bedding facilities such as open fires, camp stoves and cots, bedrolls, 
hammocks or sleeping bags. 
Cemetery:  Land used for burial of the dead, whether human or animal, including a mausoleum or columbarium. 
Channel:  A natural or artificial low-lying area of perceptible extent, with a definite bed and banks, which confines 
and conducts continuous or periodic flows of water. 
Cluster Development: A development design technique that concentrates buildings in specific areas on a site to 
allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open space, preservation of environmentally sensitive 
areas or agricultural uses. 
Co-location:  The location of wireless communication facilities on an existing structure, tower, or building in a manner 
so that an additional tower, structure or facility is not required. 
Common Plan of Development or Sale: A contiguous area where multiple separate and distinct construction 
activities will take place at different times on different schedules under one plan.  An example would be a 
commercial development with multiple separate buildings constructed over the course of multiple construction 
schedules. 
Community Solar Garden: A solar power generating facility designed to produce electricity as defined in C.R.S 40-
2-127. A community solar garden may include battery storage equipment as accessory equipment. 
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): FEMA's comment on a proposed project, which does not revise an 
effective floodplain map, that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a 
flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodplain. 
Confined Animal Feeding Operation:  An agricultural operational unit that meets all of the following criteria: (1) is 
designed to confine more than 1,000 animal units, (2) animals are confined, fed, and maintained for 45 consecutive 
days or more between May 15 and September 15, (3) crop or forage growth is not maintained in the area of 
confinement, (4) a majority of the crops or forage used to feed the animals is not grown on the same property, and 
(5) generates an average of more than five truck trips per week transporting animals to or from the confinement 
area (see also, “Animal Confinement”). 
Concealed, or Stealth: Any tower or telecommunications facility which is designed to enhance compatibility with 
adjacent land, buildings, structure and uses, including, but not limited to, architecturally screened roof-mounted 
antennas, antennas integrated into architectural elements and towers designed to not look like a Tower such as 
light poles, power poles and trees.  The term Stealth does not necessarily exclude the use of uncamouflaged lattice, 
guyed or monopole Tower designs. 
Conservation Easement:  A Deed Restriction placed on property that restricts its owner to specific limited uses of the 
property, typically agriculture or as passive, private open space. 
Contributing: A building, structure, site or object located within a Historic District that has sufficient historic, 
architectural or cultural significance and physical integrity and is related by a pattern of physical elements or social 
and cultural activities to other properties within the Historic District, so as to add to the historic significance of the 
