Executive Order D 2026 012 
August 6, 2026 
Page 1 of 3 
D 2026 012 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Declaring a Disaster Emergency Due to the Green Ridge Fire in Routt County and 
Authorizing Employment of the Colorado National Guard 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2, of the Colorado Constitution and the relevant 
portions of the Colorado Disaster Emergency Act, C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq., I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order declaring a state of disaster 
emergency due to the Green Ridge Fire in Routt County, enabling State and federal agencies to 
coordinate fire suppression, response, consequence management, mitigation, and recovery 
efforts.  
Further, pursuant to Article IV, Section 5 of the Colorado Constitution and C.R.S. § 28-3-
104, I authorize employing unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard for the purpose of 
supporting fire suppression and response efforts as deemed necessary by the Colorado 
Department of Public Safety (CDPS) for the Green Ridge Fire. 
 
Background and Purpose 
The Governor is responsible for meeting the dangers to the State and people presented by 
disasters. C.R.S. § 24-33.5-704(1). The Colorado Disaster Emergency Act defines a disaster as 
“the occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or loss of life or 
property resulting from any natural cause or cause of human origin, including but not limited to 
fire.” C.R.S. § 24-33.5-703(3). 
On July 12, 2026, the Green Ridge Fire started in Routt County east of Oak Creek. The 
Routt County Sheriff identified a tractor baling hay as the preliminary cause of the fire. The fire 
burned in extremely dry grass, brush, and timber above the Stagecoach neighborhood on the 
south side of Stagecoach Reservoir. It threatened 480 structures within three miles and had 20 
homes under mandatory evacuation. Fire resources from local, state, and federal agencies 
responded.  
On July 12, 2026, at approximately 5:16 PM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency 
due to the Green Ridge Fire in Routt County, activated the State of Colorado Emergency 
Operations Plan, and directed the Office of Emergency Management (OEM) to take all necessary 
and appropriate State actions to assist the affected jurisdictions with their fire suppression,  
