 
 
 
1-1 | ARTICLE 1 | CITY OF FORT COLLINS - LAND USE CODE 
 
     ARTICLE 1 – GENERAL PURPOSE and PROVISIONS 
ARTICLE 1  
GENERAL PURPOSE and PROVISIONS 
DIVISION 1.1 ORGANIZATION OF LAND USE CODE
The City of Fort Collins Land Use Code is organized into seven (7) Articles as follows:   
Article 1: General Purpose and Provisions   
Article 2: Zone Districts   
Article 3: Building Types   
Article 4: Use Standards   
Article 5: General Development and Site Design 
Article 6: Administration and Procedures  
Article 7: Rules of Measurement and Definition 
The General Purpose and Provisions contained in Article 1 address the organization of this Land Use Code 
(“LUC” or “Code”); its title, purpose and authority and the relationship to the Code of the City of Fort Collins.  
All zone districts within the City of Fort Collins and their respective list of permitted uses, prohibited uses, and 
development standards for particular uses are described in Articles 2 and 4. These zone districts directly 
relate to the Zoning Map and Zone Districts established in Article 6.   
Articles 3 and 5 establish standards that apply to all types of development applications unless otherwise 
indicated. Collectively, these articles are known as the general development standards and address standards 
for environmental and historic resource protection (see also, Code of the City of Fort Collins Chapter 14), site, 
building, and infrastructure design, compact urban growth, and transportation and circulation.  
Article 6, Administration and Procedures, guides the reader through the procedural and decision-making 
process by providing divisions pertaining to general procedural requirements and a twelve-step common 
development review process, as well as providing a separate division for each type of development 
application and other land use requests; rules for interpretation; rules for nonconformities; amendments to the 
text of this Code and/or Zoning Map, enforcement mechanisms, and guidelines and regulations for areas and 
activities of state interest.  
Definitions of terms and measurements used throughout this LUC are included in Article 7 although definitions 
specific to areas and activities of state interest are contained in Article 6.  
This method of organization, which distinguishes and separates general provisions, administration, general 
development standards, district standards and definitions, use-specific standards, and sign standards is 
intended to provide a user-friendly and easily accessible LUC. This is accomplished by consolidating most city 
regulations addressing land use and development, standardizing the regulatory format, providing common 
development review procedures, and clarifying standards and definitions.   
For an overview on how to use this LUC when applying for a development application or other request, see 
Section 6.2.2, Overview of Development Review Procedures.   
