 
 
 
1-4 | ARTICLE 1 | CITY OF FORT COLLINS - LAND USE CODE 
 
     ARTICLE 1 – GENERAL PURPOSE and PROVISIONS 
This Land Use Code shall also apply to the use of land following development to the extent that the provisions 
of this Land Use Code can be reasonably and logically interpreted as having such ongoing application.   
1.2.5 MINIMUM STANDARDS  
The provisions of this Land Use Code are the minimum standards necessary to accomplish the purposes of this 
Land Use Code. 
DIVISION 1.3 LEGAL 
1.3.1 RELATIONSHIP TO CODE OF THE CITY  
This Land Use Code, although not a numbered Chapter of the Code of the City, is adopted by reference in 
Chapter 29 of the Code of the City and made part thereof, with the same legal significance as though it were a 
numbered Chapter. This Land Use Code may be used, as applicable, to support the implementation of the 
Code of the City; and the Code of the City may be used, as applicable, to support the implementation of this 
Land Use Code. Particularly, but without limitation, the provisions of Chapter 1 of the Code of the City are 
incorporated into this Land Use Code by reference.  
1.3.2 CONFLICT BETWEEN LAND USE CODE STANDARDS AND CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS  
(A) In the event of a conflict between a standard or requirement contained in Articles 2, 3, or 4 a standard 
or requirement in Article 5, the standard or requirement in Article 2, 3, or 4 shall prevail to the extent of 
the conflict. In the event there is a conflict between standards or requirements contained in Article 2, 3, 
or 4, the more specific standard or requirement shall prevail to the extent of the conflict.  If neither 
standard or requirement is more specific, the more stringent standard or requirement shall prevail to the 
extent of the conflict. 
  
(B) In the event of conflicts not addressed in (A), if the provisions of this Land Use Code are internally 
conflicting or if they conflict with any other statute, code, local ordinance, resolution, regulation or other 
applicable Federal, State, or local law, the more specific standard, limitation, or requirement shall govern 
or prevail to the extent of the conflict.  If neither standard is more specific, then the more stringent 
standard, limitation or requirement shall govern or prevail to the extent of the conflict. 
1.3.3 SEVERABILITY  
It is the legislative intent of the City Council in adopting this Land Use Code that all provisions hereof shall be 
liberally construed to protect and preserve the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of 
the City. it is the further intent of the City Council that this Land Use Code shall stand, notwithstanding the 
invalidity of any part thereof, and that should any provision of this Land Use Code be held to be 
unconstitutional or invalid by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not be construed 
as affecting the validity of any of the remaining provisions. 
