 
 
 
1-3 | ARTICLE 1 | CITY OF FORT COLLINS - LAND USE CODE 
 
     ARTICLE 1 – GENERAL PURPOSE and PROVISIONS 
(M) Encouraging appropriate development and redevelopment within established areas 
 
(N) Encouraging a wide variety of housing opportunities at various densities that are well-served by public 
transportation for people of all ages, abilities, and income levels. 
 
The purpose statements set forth in this Section and all other purpose statements set forth in this Land Use 
Code are not intended to be interpreted or applied as binding standards, terms, conditions, requirements, or 
procedures pursuant to Section 1.2.4 or otherwise, unless specifically referenced in the Land Use Code 
including but not limited to Sections 6.8.2 and 6.14.4, and only to the extent the purpose statements in this 
Section reasonably apply in consideration of the specific context. Purpose statements are solely intended to 
provide guidance in the interpretation and application of the accompanying Land Use Code standards that 
have been adopted to implement the purposes described in such statements. 
1.2.3 AUTHORITY 
The City Council of the City of Fort Collins has the authority to adopt this Land Use Code pursuant to Article 
XX of the Colorado Constitution; Title 31, Article 2 of the Colorado Revised Statutes, the Charter of The City of 
Fort Collins, Colorado, and such other authorities and provisions as are established in the statutory and 
common law of the State of Colorado.   
1.2.4 APPLICABILITY  
The provisions of this Code shall apply to any and all development of land, as defined in Article 7 of this Code, 
within the municipal boundaries of the City, unless expressly and specifically exempted or provided otherwise 
in this Code. For example, this Code is meant to complement and not override or substitute for the 
requirements of Chapter 14 of the Code of the City of Fort Collins regarding landmarks. No development shall 
be undertaken without prior and proper approval or authorization pursuant to the terms of this Code. All 
development shall comply with the applicable terms, conditions, requirements, standards and procedures 
established in this Code. However, (1) purpose statements set forth in this Code, and (2) City Council adopted 
policy plans, including but not limited to City Plan and its adopted elements or sub-area plans, are not 
intended to establish applicable terms, conditions, requirements, standards or procedures, unless explicitly 
identified and specified otherwise in this Code. Instead, purpose statements and Council adopted policy plans 
are solely intended to provide guidance in the interpretation - 4 - and application of the accompanying Land 
Use Code standards that have been adopted to implement the purposes described in such statements. 
Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure or part 
thereof shall be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, moved or structurally altered except in 
conformance with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located, nor shall a yard, lot or 
open space be reduced in dimensions or area to an amount less than the minimum requirements set forth 
herein and all other applicable standards of the City or to an amount greater than the maximum requirements 
set forth herein and all other applicable standards of the City.   
This Land Use Code establishes procedural and substantive rules for obtaining the necessary approval to 
develop land and construct buildings and structures. Development applications for overall development plans, 
project development plans, and final plans will be reviewed for compliance with the applicable development 
standards herein and all other applicable standards of the City. Building permit applications will also be 
reviewed for compliance with the applicable development standards and District Standards and all other 
applicable standards of the City and will be further reviewed for compliance with the approved final plan in 
which they are located.   
