Executive Order D 2026 015 
September 2, 2026 
Page 1 of 2 
D 2026 015 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Directing Facilitation and a Recommendation Regarding La Sierra, Also Known As the 
Cielo Vista Ranch, in Costilla County 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution, I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order directing the facilitation 
and a recommendation including stakeholder engagement regarding a ranch in Costilla County 
known as La Sierra by Costilla County residents and easement holders and Cielo Vista by the 
current owner (the “Ranch”). 
 
Background and Purpose 
Cielo Vista Ranch, traditionally known as La Sierra, consists of approximately 80,000 
acres in Costilla County with a complex, rich historical and legal history dating back to the 1844 
Sangre de Cristo Land Grant. This historic land grant was originally one million acres. The 
Mexican government made the land grant for the purpose of settlement. Under the terms of the 
Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo between the United States and Mexico, and the United States 
Congress confirmed the validity of the Sangre de Cristo grant in the 1860 Act of Confirmation. 
The early settlers of the land grant were allotted areas of arable land to families for farming and 
ranching and the areas not arable were available for common use. The farmers would use the 
common use lands for grazing, hunting, recreation, and a source of firewood and timber. The 
heirs of the original land grant claimant sold their interest in the Ranch to William Gilpin, 
Colorado’s first territorial governor (“Gilpin property”). The rights of the settlers remained intact 
when the land was transferred to Governor Gilpin.  
The successors in interest to the Gilpin property maintained the rights of the settlers until 
1960 when Jack Taylor bought the land. Since then, there have been multiple lawsuits between 
the various owners of the Gilpin property and the successors in title to the original settlers of 
Sangre de Cristo grant (“Successors”) regarding the Successors’ access rights. Most recently, the 
Successors brought suit to enforce their access rights against the current owner who built a high 
fence around some of the property. The parties have not been able to come to agreement on a list 
of regulations regarding access rights. Therefore, the court determined a Special Master would 
decide disputes on a case-by-case basis.  
I am issuing this Executive Order to investigate whether there is common ground that can 
be reached regarding the property that improves on the current status quo and provides clarity 
and certainty for all. 
