Executive Order D 2026 001 
February 26, 2026 
Page 1 of 3 
D 2026 001 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Declaring a Disaster Emergency Due to Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Weld 
County 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution and the relevant 
portions of the Colorado Disaster Emergency Act, C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq., I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, issue this Executive Order declaring a state of disaster 
emergency due to the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in Weld County, enabling State 
agencies to better support our agriculture sector by coordinating for statewide monitoring and 
mitigation of disease spread, response, consequence management, and recovery efforts. 
 
Background and Purpose 
The Governor is responsible for meeting the dangers to the State and people presented by 
disasters. C.R.S. § 24-33.5-704(1). The Colorado Disaster Emergency Act defines a disaster as 
“the occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or loss of life or 
property resulting from any natural cause or cause of human origin.” C.R.S. § 24-33.5-703(3). 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) was initially detected in the United States in 
the wild bird population in January 2022 in South Carolina and in the domestic poultry 
population in February 2022 in Indiana. HPAI has spread across the United States over the past 
four years. The disease spreads rapidly among wild and domestic poultry. It has a mortality rate 
above ninety percent in poultry.  
HPAI was detected in wild birds in Colorado on March 24, 2022, with ongoing detection 
in the State since that time. Cases in Colorado are occurring in wild, domestic, and commercial 
flocks, including occasional spillover into mammals. 
On January 29, 2026, the Colorado Department of Agriculture was notified of a high 
mortality event at a commercial table egg layer facility in Weld County; the Colorado State 
University Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory reported presumptive positive results for HPAI that 
afternoon. The facility had approximately 1.3 million chickens on site at the time of the 
diagnosis.  
On January 29, 2026, at approximately 8:05 PM, the Lieutenant Governor, acting as 
Governor, verbally declared a disaster emergency for the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza in  
