Executive Order D 2026 001 
February 26, 2026 
Page 2 of 3 
 
Weld County and activated the State Emergency Operations Plan. This Executive Order 
memorializes that verbal declaration. 
On January 30, 2026, HPAI was confirmed in the Weld County facility by the United 
States Department of Agriculture National Veterinary Services Laboratory. 
Oversight of the response to the outbreak in livestock and implementation of statewide 
surveillance and protective measures requires the deployment and coordination of multiple State 
agencies, including the Colorado Department of Agriculture, Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment, the Colorado Division of Homeland Security and Emergency 
Management, and federal partners including the United States Department of Agriculture. 
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
HPAI in Weld County and associated impacts constitute a disaster emergency 
under C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq. The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of 
January 29, 2026, declaring a disaster emergency is hereby memorialized by this 
Executive Order and shall have the full force and effect of law as if it were 
contained within this Executive Order. 
B. 
The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of January 29, 2026, activated the State 
Emergency Operations Plan. All State departments and agencies are authorized to 
take whatever actions may be required and requested by the Director or their 
delegate of the Office of Emergency Management (OEM), pursuant to the State 
Emergency Operations Plan, including provision of appropriate staff and 
equipment as necessary. 
C. 
Personal Protective Equipment at the OEM’s Resource Asset Management site 
shall be made available to protect the health and safety of response workers and 
support personnel at the affected sites, and to minimize further spread of HPAI. 
D. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-706(4)(b), funds in the Disaster Emergency Fund 
(DEF) are insufficient to pay for statewide monitoring and mitigation of disease 
spread, response, consequence management, and recovery efforts related to HPAI. 
Therefore, I order that two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) be transferred 
from the State Emergency Reserve Cash Fund (SERCF) to the DEF. I encumber 
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) in the DEF for costs associated with the 
State’s statewide monitoring and mitigation of disease spread, response, 
consequence management, and recovery efforts related to the HPAI in Colorado. 
 
