 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
Division of Real Estate, including the Real Estate 
Commission, Subdivision Developers and Home Warranty 
Service Contracts 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
Real estate brokers help clients purchase, sell, 
rent, or lease real property. A subdivision 
developer is a legal entity that participates as an 
owner, promoter, or sales agent in the promotion, 
sale, or lease of a subdivision. Home warranty 
service contracts cover repair or replacement of a 
home’s major systems, such as heating, air 
conditioning, electrical and plumbing.  
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
The risk of harm in real estate transactions is high. 
If they are not handled properly, the consumer 
could face significant financial consequences. As 
such, a broker and subdivision developer should 
possess minimal qualifications. Although there is no 
regulatory program associated with home warranty 
service contracts, consumers can still be harmed by 
companies offering such contracts. 
 
Who is regulated? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, there were 17,935 licensed real 
estate brokers. There was a total of 55 subdivision 
developers that year. Most subdivision developers 
were associated with timeshares.  
 
How is it regulated? 
 
The Real Estate Commission (Commission) approves 
applications from real estate brokers. Once 
licensed, a broker must complete continuing 
education and maintain insurance.  
 
 
 
Subdivision developers must provide the names and 
criminal records of principals and the location of 
the property, among other items. Part 9 of Article 
10 of Title 12, Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), 
creates 
statutory 
obligations 
for 
companies 
offering home warranty service contracts. 
 
What does it cost? 
 
During fiscal year 23-24, the Division of Real Estate 
expended $6,362,506 and 42 FTE on regulating real 
estate brokers and subdivision developers.  
 
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, there were 484 complaints 
concerning real estate brokers and no complaints 
regarding subdivision developers. There were 61 
disciplinary actions taken that year, and $884,627 
in fines imposed.  
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue the regulation of real 
estate brokers and subdivision 
developers, for 11 years until 
2037, and continue the statutes 
pertaining to home warranty 
service contracts but remove 
them from the sunset review 
schedule. 
 
• Give the Commission the ability 
to deny licenses for certain 
offenses laid out in the Act. 
 
• Authorize the Commission to 
order restitution. 
