 
 
7 | P a g e 
Profile of the Profession  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what the 
profession does, where they work, who they serve and any necessary qualifications. 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition. One way this may be accomplished is to review the projected 
salary and growth of the profession. 
 
It should be noted at the outset that this sunset review focuses solely on the regulation 
of real estate brokers, subdivision developers and home warranty service contracts.  It 
is not the product of any type of review of homeowners’ associations (HOAs) or the 
community association managers that manage them. Nor is it a review of the Colorado 
Common Interest Ownership Act or the regulation of real estate appraisers or mortgage 
loan originators. 
 
 
 
Real Estate Brokers 
 
Often the single biggest asset a person will buy or sell in their lifetime involves real 
estate. To illustrate, the average value of a home in Colorado was $541,198 in 2025.2 
 
Real estate transactions can be complex, cumbersome, and intimidating. They involve 
multiple layers of legal, regulatory, and financial considerations not known to most 
individuals. Real estate brokers help the public navigate through the intricate process 
of purchasing, selling, or renting property.  
 
Typically, there are generally two sides to a real estate transaction: a buyer and seller. 
Real estate brokers can act as an agent for buyers, and as such they will meet with 
clients to determine what they are looking for in a property and assess how much they 
are looking to spend. Agents for sellers meet with clients to help them find a qualified 
buyer and help decide on the asking price. To match properties to a client’s needs, a 
broker will familiarize themself with local communities and stay current on available 
financing options.3  
 
2 Zillow. Colorado Housing Market. Retrieved September 29, 2025, from https://www.zillow.com/home-
values/10/co/ 
3 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: What Real Estate Brokers and Sales Agents Do. 
Retrieved September 8, 2025, from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/sales/real-estate-brokers-and-sales-agents.htm#tab-
2 
