 
 
13 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
It should be noted at the outset that this sunset review focuses solely on the regulation 
of real estate brokers, subdivision developers and home warranty service contracts.  It 
is not the product of any type of review of homeowners’ associations (HOAs) or the 
community association managers that manage them.  Nor is it a review of the Colorado 
Common Interest Ownership Act or the regulation of real estate appraisers or mortgage 
loan originators. 
 
Real Estate Brokers and Subdivision Developers 
 
The Real Estate Brokers Board (Board) was first created in 1925. Originally housed in 
the Office of the Colorado Secretary of State, it regulated real estate brokers and real 
estate sales agents. The Board then transitioned into the Colorado Real Estate 
Commission (Commission) in 1963. That year, the General Assembly also enacted 
legislation to place subdivision developers under the Commission’s jurisdiction.  
 
Under the Administrative Organization Act of 1968, the Commission was transferred to 
the Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA).  
 
In 1968, Congress passed the Fair Housing Act, which prohibits discrimination by real 
estate brokers due to race, religion, gender, national origin, familial status, or 
disability.35 
 
Congress enacted the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) in 1975. RESPA 
prohibits brokers from receiving kickbacks for making referrals to a settlement service 
 
35 U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division. Fair Housing Act. Retrieved September 10, 2025, from 
https://www.justice.gov/crt/fair-housing-act-1 
