 
 
15 | P a g e 
• The dangers of radon and the need for testing, 
• Any knowledge of the residential property's radon concentrations and history, 
and 
• The most recent brochure published by the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment regarding radon in real estate transactions. 
 
In 2024, the General Assembly enacted House Bill 24-1094 regarding subdivision 
developers. It required time shares to hold in trust any earnest money received from a 
prospective buyer. 
 
Also in 2024, new rules by the National Association of Realtors (NAR) went into effect 
following a legal settlement. Approximately 1.5 million Realtors throughout the country 
are members of NAR. 41 Following the settlement, brokers can no longer include 
compensation offers for buyer’s agents on a listing service. Instead, buyers' agents are 
required to negotiate their commission directly with their client according to their 
agreement.42 
 
Home Warranty Service Contracts 
 
The General Assembly enacted the Colorado Preowned Home Warranty Service 
Company Act in 1979. Among other things, the legislation was limited to preowned 
housing, required those offering the contracts to register with the Commission, required 
the posting of a bond of at least $50,000, provided grounds for discipline of registered 
companies and prohibited lenders and those offering service contracts to require the 
purchase of such contracts. 
 
After a sunset review of the Commission in 1988, the General Assembly implemented 
several recommendations, including the substantial deregulation of the preowned home 
warranty service company industry. The sunset bill repealed the registration and 
bonding requirements and instead delineated certain provisions that such home 
warranty service contracts must contain. Additional sunset reviews were conducted in 
1998 and 2007, in conjunction with sunset reviews of the Commission, but no 
substantive statutory changes were recommended or implemented. 
 
In 2015, the General Assembly passed House Bill 15-1223 (HB 1223) to clarify confusion 
raised by House Bill 14-1199, which pertained to appliance warranties. To resolve the 
confusion, HB 1223 amended the statute to clarify its applicability to service contracts, 
but excluded such contracts sold by public utilities and a builder’s warranty provided 
in connection with the sale of a new home. House Bill 1223 also changed the sunset 
date of the statute such that it no longer coincided with the sunset date of the 
Commission. 
 
 
41 National Association of Realtors. Strength in Numbers. Retrieved September 10, 2025, from 
https://www.nar.realtor/magazine/real-estate-news/strength-in-numbers 
42 National Association of Realtors. NAR Settlement FAQs. Retrieved September 10, 2025, from 
https://www.nar.realtor/the-facts/nar-settlement-faqs 
