 
 
16 | P a g e 
In 2019, with the passage of House Bill 19-1172, the statutes governing home warranty 
service contracts were moved from section 12-61-602, et seq., C.R.S., into section 12-
10-901, et seq., C.R.S.  
 
A sunset review of the statute took place in 2020, which recommended continuing 
statutes governing the contracts for six years and clarifying that home warranty service 
contracts are not insurance. Both of these recommendations were adopted by the 
General Assembly. 
 
In 2023, the General Assembly passed House Bill 23-1134. Under this legislation, home 
warranty service contracts that cover gas-fueled appliances must give a homeowner the 
option to replace a gas-fueled appliance with a similar device that operates on 
electricity. 
 
 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth, fifth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent;  
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether 
regulation is set at the appropriate level and whether the current laws are impeding or 
enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public interest. 
 
The Commission and Division are both created within Article 10 of Title 12, C.R.S. (Act). 
 
The Commission is a type 1 entity consisting of five members appointed by the 
Governor. Three brokers with at least five years of experience in real estate sit on the 
Commission. At least one of these three brokers must have substantial experience in 
property management. The remaining two Commission seats are held by members of 
the public.43  
 
43 § 12-10-206(1), C.R.S. 
