 
 
30 | P a g e 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth, sixth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency's board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
It should be noted at the outset that this sunset review focuses solely on the regulation 
of real estate brokers, subdivision developers and home warranty service contracts.  It 
is not the product of any type of review of homeowners’ associations (HOAs) or the 
community association managers that manage them.  Nor is it a review of the Colorado 
Common Interest Ownership Act or the regulation of real estate appraisers or mortgage 
loan originators. 
 
The Colorado Real Estate Commission (Commission) and the Colorado Division of Real 
Estate (Division) regulate real estate brokers and subdivision developers. The 
Commission and Division are both created in Article 10 of Title 12 of the Colorado 
Revised Statutes (Act). 
 
The Commission is a type 1 entity consisting of five members appointed by the 
Governor: 152 
 
• Three brokers with at least five years of experience, at least one of whom has 
substantial experience in property management; and 
• Two members of the public.  
 
The Commission meets every other month. Meetings are virtual and can be attended by 
any member of the public, including brokers, who are often in attendance. Meetings 
 
152 § 12-10-206(1), C.R.S. 
