 
 
34 | P a g e 
• A total of 48 hours of classroom instruction regarding real estate law and real 
estate practice;  
• A total of 48 hours of classroom instruction in understanding and preparing 
Colorado real estate contracts; and  
• A total of 72 hours of instruction in the following areas of study: trust accounts 
and record keeping, real estate closings, legal issues, and practical applications. 
 
An individual may also submit an official transcript from an accredited college or 
university if they have a degree based on real estate.  
 
Second, one must schedule an examination with the Division's vendor, which is currently 
PSI. Once they complete the examination with PSI, the information will be sent to the 
Division. 
 
The third step for initial licensure is to complete the background check requirements 
and submit fingerprints to a CBI-approved vendor. Fingerprints must be submitted two 
to three weeks prior to submission of the application. If an application is received more 
than 60 days after CBI receives a candidate’s fingerprint record, they will be required 
to resubmit the fingerprints for review. 
 
The fourth step requires a candidate to obtain errors and omissions insurance (EO 
Insurance) to cover all acts requiring a license. The Division contracts with Rice 
Insurance Services, LLC, to administer group EO Insurance for licensed real estate 
brokers.  
 
Licensees can also be covered under their company’s umbrella EO Insurance policy if 
one exists. Some licensed brokerage firms also carry a group EO Insurance that provides 
coverage to all brokers associated with the brokerage. However, if a licensee ends their 
employment with a company or brokerage firm, they will need to purchase individual 
EO Insurance. 
 
If a candidate has held a real estate license in another state for two or more years, 
they can be issued a license in Colorado. Such candidates must provide evidence that 
their qualifications are substantially equivalent to the requirements for licensure in 
Colorado.172 They must also pass the state’s broker examination. 
 
Table 5 illustrates the number of new, endorsement and renewal licenses for the fiscal 
years indicated. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
172 § 12-10-203(5)(b), C.R.S. 
