 
 
52 | P a g e 
Creating this option will allow the Commission to better protect the public by being 
able to deny a license to an individual who has a history of committing serious crimes 
that would affect their ability to practice real estate. As with discipline, the 
Commission will not automatically deny all applicants that have these convictions. 
However, this change would create the option to deny the license if it is deemed 
necessary, based on the circumstances of the case and based on whether the applicant 
has had an opportunity to undergo reformation and rehabilitation. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the 
agency is necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The fifth sunset 
criterion asks whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, and practices 
and any other circumstances. The tenth criterion asks whether complaint, 
investigation, and disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public and whether 
final dispositions of complaints are in the public interest or self-serving to the 
profession or regulated entity. The fourteenth criterion asks whether changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations. 
 
Since the Commission has the ability to discipline licensees for these egregious crimes 
once licensed but not to deny an application for the same reasons, the Commission 
should be authorized to also deny candidates if they already were found guilty of those 
same crimes before applying for a license. The General Assembly should thus allow the 
Commission the ability to deny licenses for offenses in section 12-10-217(1)(n), C.R.S. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Authorize the Commission to order restitution. 
 
A central duty of the Commission, as with any licensing agency, is to enforce the 
statutes it is tasked with administering, which often entails the imposition of 
discipline.225 Discipline can take several forms, from the impositiotabn fines up to 
$2,500 to censure, suspension, or revocation of a license.226 Disciplinary duties are 
common to many regulated professions and licensing programs. However, the field of 
real estate is unique. Because the handling of others’ money is directly involved, the 
Commission should be able to discipline brokers when it is clear that they directly 
misappropriated or mishandled such funds. 
 
Brokers often hold money in trust accounts for other individuals, whether they are their 
clients, or other parties associated with a transaction. Common instances requiring the 
use of trust accounts include: 
 
• 
Earnest money deposits, 
• 
Security deposits, and 
• 
Rent. 
 
225 § 12-10-217, C.R.S. 
226 § 12-10-217(1), C.R.S. 
