 
 
53 | P a g e 
Earnest money is a deposit typically made by a home buyer to a seller to demonstrate 
good faith and intent to purchase property. 227 In Colorado, brokers are personally 
responsible for the handling of earnest money received in a transaction. 228 
Contingencies in real estate refer to the events and conditions that protect a buyer's 
earnest money in a transaction. If a contingency is not met, the buyer has the ability 
to “walk away” from the deal and receive their earnest money back. Because of the 
complex nature of real estate transactions, it is up to the seller’s broker to pay 
attention to contingencies and their required due dates. If the seller’s broker does not 
meet a deadline or fails to otherwise meet the contingency in the contract, the buyer 
might be able to walk away from a deal altogether. The seller loses out not only on the 
deal, but they suffer a direct loss of the earnest money made in the deal. This can also 
apply to the broker on the other side of the transaction. Depending on the terms of the 
deal, if the buyer’s broker does not monitor dates and deadlines, their actions might 
result in losing the buyer’s earnest money deposit. 
 
A security deposit is a deposit of money with the primary purpose of securing a rental 
agreement for residential property.229 Rent refers to any money paid to a landlord for 
the right of use, possession, and occupation of a dwelling unit.230 With regards to 
security deposits and rents, monies are at risk of being comingled, or worse, embezzled. 
 
Given the numerous circumstances under which a broker might hold money for others, 
it is crucial that the Commission be able to discipline brokers in instances where they 
directly misappropriate client funds. One way to accomplish this is to order the licensee 
to pay restitution to the injured party. 
 
The ordering of monies directly to consumers is not a novel idea to the Commission. In 
1971, the General Assembly created the Real Estate Recovery Fund (Recovery Fund), 
which allowed injured clients who won civil claims against licensees to be made whole. 
The Recovery Fund was repealed by the General Assembly in 2005. However, in recent 
years, the Commission has seen a rise in complaints related to misappropriation or 
mismanagement of funds.  
 
In fiscal year 23-24, such issues made up the second largest category of complaints. 
There were 57 complaints related to potential Trust Account Violations that year. The 
Commission recently received two “companion” cases, or instances where a broker 
worked directly with a Mortgage Loan Originator (MLO), and both committed a violation 
in the same transaction. Notably, Colorado’s MLO Board has the authority to order 
direct restitution to the person who suffered financial loss as a result of a violation.231 
In one of these cases, the administrative law judge ordered restitution against the 
broker as well, but the decision was ultimately overturned because the Act does not 
explicitly authorize restitution as a specific sanction. Complainants inquired as to why 
 
227 Colorado Division of Real Estate. Frequently Asked Questions On The Home Buying Process. Retrieved 
September 8, 2025, from https://dre.colorado.gov/colorado-home-buying-process#money 
228 § 12-10-203(7), C.R.S. 
229 § 38-12-102(6), C.R.S. 
230 § 38-12-801(7), C.R.S. 
231 § 12-10-713(1), C.R.S. 
