 
 
54 | P a g e 
restitution could be ordered for the MLO licensee, and not the broker, who was 
potentially more culpable.  
 
Given the serious nature of these issues and the number of opportunities a broker has 
to misappropriate money belonging to others, the Commission should be given the 
authority to order restitution similar to how the MLO Board does. 
 
With regards to orders on MLO licensees, the Division does not collect any money for 
the recipient, nor does it get involved in collections. It is up to the licensee to make 
payment directly to the recipient. To follow up, the Division communicates with the 
licensee and recipient to obtain documentation that payment was made. In these 
instances, the licensee can still practice despite the restitution order. However, if the 
licensee does not make payment, such actions might be deemed a violation of an 
order,232 which could lead to further discipline, such as prohibiting one from practicing. 
In instances where an MLO had their license revoked and owes restitution to a recipient 
as ordered by the MLO Board, they may not apply for a new license until they make the 
recipient whole.233 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the 
agency is necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The tenth 
criterion asks whether complaint, investigation, and disciplinary procedures adequately 
protect the public and whether final dispositions of complaints are in the public interest 
or self-serving to the profession or regulated entity. The fourteenth criterion asks 
whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve agency 
operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
The General Assembly should authorize the Commission to order restitution. This will 
allow consumers who win judgments against brokers to receive funds and be made 
whole. Complaints related to mishandling of trust accounts are one of the Commission’s 
most common complaints, underscoring the need for this measure.  
 
 
 
232 § 12-10-713(1)(m), C.R.S. 
233 § 12-10-713(7), C.R.S. 
