 
 
56 | P a g e 
In some instances, a licensee may not respond to an education audit at all. In instances 
where multiple attempts at correspondence are made to no avail, cases are forwarded 
to the Office of the Attorney General for litigation through the administrative courts. 
The cases are predominately resolved by an “Initial Decision Upon Default”, as the 
licensee is subsequently unresponsive through the hearing process. The average cost to 
the Division to take one of these cases through the administrative court process is 
$1,850. The Commission had one continuing education case that went through the 
hearing process and cost the Division approximately $22,000. 
 
Rather than expending resources to litigate these cases, the Commission should be 
granted the authority to inactivate a license when a broker does not comply with 
continuing education requirements. The Commission can use this option in egregious 
cases of compliance rather than litigating them through the court process. This might 
also allow the Commission to dedicate legal resources on other practice violations while 
making it easier for the Commission to ensure that licensees are keeping up to date 
with continuing education requirements. 
 
The other main requirement for renewal of licensure is to keep EO Insurance.240 Failure 
to provide a certificate of insurance with an application will convert one’s license to 
“inactive” status.241 Some stakeholders expressed surprise that the Commission can 
inactivate those who are noncompliant with the periodic insurance requirement, but it 
is not able to use that option when it comes to continuing education. Insurance and 
continuing education are the two main aspects of one’s continual licensure, and the 
Commission 
should 
be 
able 
to 
effectively 
tackle 
both 
issues 
equally.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion looks at whether the agency operates in the public interest 
and whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, or 
procedures. The sixth sunset criterion questions whether an analysis of agency 
operations indicates that the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its 
statutory duties efficiently and effectively. The tenth criterion asks whether complaint, 
investigation, and disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public. The 
fourteenth criterion asks whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary 
to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should authorize the Commission to 
inactivate licenses for not complying with continuing education requirements. 
 
 
 
240 § 12-10-204, C.R.S. 
241 4 CCR § 725-1-3.9(D), Rules Regarding Real Estate Brokers. 
