 
 
57 | P a g e 
Recommendation 5 — Clarify that any licensed broker can elect to have their 
license issued in a previously used legal name.  
 
Individual broker licenses are issued to practitioners in their name. No person may be 
licensed as a broker under more than one name.242 However, issues may arise when an 
individual changes their legal name. For the operations of a broker, it might be 
beneficial to retain their previous name for business reasons, such as maintaining one’s 
reputation or not interfering with current property listings that may belong to the 
broker. If a broker had been using their previous name for a long period of time, they 
might be known in their community by that particular name.  
 
The Act allows brokers to elect to use a previous name. However, it is not currently 
clear whether this option can be afforded to all brokers. The Act states that,243 
 
No license for a broker registered as being in the employ of another broker 
shall be issued to a partnership, a limited liability company, or a 
corporation or under a fictitious name or trade name; except that a 
married woman may elect to use her birth name. 
 
This language is unnecessarily restrictive. It is unclear whether this option can be 
afforded to all brokers who have legally changed their name for any reason. The 
Commission has received an increased number of inquiries from brokers regarding the 
application of this language.  
 
The General Assembly should eliminate this restriction to prevent any confusion 
altogether. Any person who has legally changed their name should be able to retain 
their previous name on a license, so long as it is not being used in a fraudulent manner. 
The language in its current writing is outdated and restrictive by not allowing the option 
to be used by all brokers. 
 
The third sunset criterion asks whether the existing rules and regulations establish the 
least restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with public interest. The 
twelfth sunset criterion asks whether entry requirements encourage equity, diversity, 
and inclusivity. The fourteenth criterion questions if statutory changes are necessary 
to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest.  
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should clarify that any licensed broker can 
have their license issued in a previously used legal name.  
 
 
 
242 § 12-10-203(9), C.R.S 
243 § 12-10-203(8), C.R.S. 
