 
 
58 | P a g e 
Recommendation 6 — Clarify language regarding revocations and extend the 
waiting period to apply for a new license from one year to two years. 
 
The Act is currently unclear with regards to broker license revocations.  
 
The Act states:244 
 
The Commission, after holding a hearing pursuant to section 12-10-219, 
has the power to… permanently revoke a license. . . 
 
The same provision later clouds the issue by stating:245 
 
Any application for licensure from a person whose license has been 
revoked shall not be considered until the passage of one year from the 
date of revocation. 
 
These two provisions, taken together, tend to cause confusion. While a revocation, by 
its very nature is permanent, the second provision allows one to apply for a new license 
after waiting one year. Thus, the second provision seems to contradict the first. 
 
When this language is brought up during Commission discussions, it creates confusion 
and hinders the decision-making process during deliberations. This language could be 
clarified to prevent further confusion before such inquiries are presented in front of 
the Commission.  
 
Additionally, the one-year period may be problematic for the protection of public 
welfare. It is standard among many regulatory programs, including that of real estate 
appraisers,246 in Colorado to require a two-year waiting period prior to the issuance of 
a new license following a revocation. Given the seriousness of a violation that would 
lead to revocation, a two-year waiting period may be appropriate in order for a 
practitioner to correct behaviors that led to the initial action. As such, in clarifying the 
revocation language, the General Assembly should also extend the waiting period to 
apply for a new license following revocation from one year to two years. 
 
The fifth criterion looks at whether the agency operates in the public interest and 
whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, or procedures. 
The sixth sunset criterion questions whether an analysis of agency operations indicates 
that the agency or the agency’s commission performs its statutory duties efficiently 
and effectively. The tenth criterion questions whether complaint, investigation, and 
disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public and whether final dispositions of 
complaints are in the public interest or self-serving to the profession or regulated 
entity. The fourteenth criterion asks if administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
244 § 12-10-217(1), C.R.S. 
245 § 12-10-217(9), C.R.S. 
246 § 12-10-613(6)(a), C.R.S. 
