 
 
59 | P a g e 
As such, the General Assembly should repeal the word “permanent” within the 
discipline provision of section 12-10-217(1), C.R.S., to eliminate confusing language for 
the public and for the Commission. It should also establish a two-year waiting period to 
apply for a new license following revocation. 
 
 
Recommendation 7 — Repeal the requirement that subpoenas for brokers and 
subdivision developers must be served in the same manner as those in district 
court and model the process after the Division’s Real Estate Appraiser 
program.  
 
As part of the licensing and investigative processes, the Division frequently compels 
witnesses or obtain information from applicants, licensees and third parties. However, 
an improvement could be made to the Act regarding the manner in which administrative 
subpoenas are issued.  
 
The Commission or an ALJ has the authority to issue a subpoena to compel the 
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documents pursuant to 
an investigation or hearing. For both brokers and subdivision developers, the Act states 
that subpoenas must be served in “the same manner as… subpoenas issued by district 
courts.”247 
 
To comply with the Act, the Division uses in-person service to deliver subpoenas. 
Applicants and licensees are likely to provide the requested information. However, 
given the high volume of disciplinary actions, in-person service can be costly and time-
consuming. It can also be difficult for the Division to hire process servers near brokers 
who have their principal place of business in a less populated region of the state.  
 
This language to mirror the district court is outdated and not commonly used by 
regulatory programs. It seems to be unique to the Division. Part 7 of Article 10 of Title 
12, C.R.S., which created the Mortgage Loan Originator Program, also administered by 
the Division, has virtually identical language when it comes to subpoenas.248 
 
However, the Division’s Real Estate Appraiser program does not have such language. Its 
subpoena language states,249  
 
In addition to all other powers and duties imposed upon it by law, the 
[Real Estate Appraiser Board] has the following powers and duties… 
subpoena persons and documents, which subpoenas may be enforced by a 
court of competent jurisdiction if not obeyed. 
 
 
247 §§ 12-10-224 and 12-10-506(4), C.R.S 
248 § 12-10-715(1), C.R.S. 
249 § 12-10-604(1)(h), C.R.S. 
