 
 
60 | P a g e 
The Division notes that the language in the appraiser act is easier to comply with. The 
General Assembly should therefore update the Act to remove the requirement that 
subpoenas be served in the same manner as is required by district courts for brokers 
and subdivision developers. Instead, the language should be modeled after the 
Division’s appraisal program. Having at least three of its regulatory programs retain the 
same process will increase the Division’s efficiency overall when it comes to 
administering subpoenas. 
 
The second criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the 
program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight. The fifth criterion looks at 
whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its operation is 
impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, and practices and any 
other circumstances, including budgetary, resource, and personnel matters. The sixth 
criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and effectively. 
And the tenth criterion asks whether complaint, investigation, and disciplinary 
procedures adequately protect the public and whether final dispositions of complaints 
are in the public interest.  
 
The General Assembly should repeal the outdated requirement that subpoenas for 
brokers and subdivision developers be issued in the same manner as district courts and 
mirror its procedures from the Real Estate Appraiser program. Making the language 
more consistent across programs helps the Division stay efficient, while being able to 
compel subpoenaed persons and documents more effectively. 
 
 
Recommendation 8 — Allow the Division to establish fees for applications to 
approve continuing education courses. 
 
Brokers must satisfy continuing education requirements prior to applying to renew their 
licenses. All active licensees must complete 24 hours of continuing education for each 
three-year license cycle. 250 Courses are not directly taught by the Commission. Rather, 
they are reviewed and approved by the Commission for an educator to offer the course 
for continuing education credit.251 In practice, the approval of continuing education 
applications is delegated to Division staff. 
 
Twelve of the 24 hours must be comprised of the Annual Commission Update Course. 
The remaining 12 hours can be any combination of elective credit hours approved by 
the Commission. 252 There exist a number of organizations and associations that provide 
continuing education courses specifically designed for those in real estate. Any 
brokerage firm may also provide continuing education so long as it meets guidelines in 
the Act and in the Commission’s rules. 
 
250 §§ 12-10-213(1), C.R.S. and 4 CCR 725-1-4.1, Rules Regarding Real Estate Brokers. 
251 § 12-10-213(3), C.R.S. 
252 §§ 12-10-213, C.R.S. and 4 CCR 725-1-4.1, Rules Regarding Real Estate Brokers. 
