 
 
62 | P a g e 
If continuing education providers were required to submit an application fee, it would 
help improve agency operations from a budgetary perspective. Reviewing continuing 
education applications utilizes Division resources, which are largely derived from broker 
license fees. As such, the cost burden is currently placed on broker licensees, rather 
than education providers themselves. By authorizing the Division to charge an 
application fee, the cost burden shift from the broader pool of licensees to the 
education providers, who are already permitted to charge for courses.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks whether the agency operates in the public interest and 
whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, resource, and 
personnel matters. The fourteenth criterion asks whether administrative and statutory 
changes are necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
The General Assembly should allow the Division to collect application fees for the 
review and approval of continuing education course applications. This will improve 
operations from a budgetary standpoint and shift the cost burden to education 
providers, who have a clearer nexus to the application, rather than all licensees 
themselves. 
 
 
Recommendation 9 — Authorize the Commission to send correspondence to 
licensees electronically and direct that it develop protocols to ensure 
security and to address when it will be used. 
 
The Commission has modernized many of its communication processes with regulated 
professionals. The vast majority of communication between Commission staff and 
regulated professionals occurs with electronic correspondence.  However, there is still 
language in the statute that requires the Commission to communicate with regulated 
professionals via mail. 
 
Since email correspondence is widely utilized between the Division and regulated 
professionals, the statute should be updated to allow electronic correspondence in all 
areas of the statute.  
 
Importantly, authorizing the utilization of electronic correspondence should be 
permissive, not mandatory.  The Division may utilize first-class mail delivery if, for 
example, staff are unable to identify a current email address for an individual. Even 
so, the Division should establish protocols addressing security of electronic 
correspondence as well as when electronic correspondence may be used. 
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that 
the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently 
and effectively. Authorizing electronic correspondence for all communication between 
the Division and regulated professionals will allow an additional option for 
communication and facilitate enhanced efficiency.  
