 
 
64 | P a g e 
approved contracts and forms as appropriate to a transaction or circumstance. Not 
using the correct form or contract could have dire consequences for the represented 
party. Hence, the ACU is critical to help to ensure Brokers are knowledgeable about 
new rules and using the correct version of contracts to service their clients. 
 
The real estate sector is constantly evolving at the national level, too. There is new 
technology used to list properties, updates to rules by credentialing bodies, changes to 
the federal property tax code, or important legal cases that alter the practice of real 
estate in a substantive manner. The ACU can be utilized to apprise brokers of these 
changes as well. Licensees have depended on the ACU for at least a decade. In its 2016 
sunset review, COPRRR surveyed licensed brokers and found that more than 42 percent 
of respondents strongly agreed that the ACU was necessary to keep up with changes. 
Clearly, the ACU has been necessary to help professionals keep up with real estate 
changes and to properly serve their clients. 
 
However, the ACU must be completed by December 31.260 If a broker does not take the 
ACU until late in the year, they risk having more than a year of not knowing vital new 
changes that may have occurred nationwide or statewide. They may be negligently 
using old methods of practice or using outdated forms and not realize these errors until 
they take the ACU at the last minute. This would be a disservice to Coloradans. Real 
estate is a complex area to navigate for clients, and they rely on their brokers to be up 
to date with relevant laws as much as possible.  
 
It is difficult to estimate the total number of brokers that take the course near the 
deadline as the ACU is taught by independent education providers.  Such information is 
not directly shared with the Division. However, the Division does conduct continuing 
education audits and notes that they do see a considerable number of licensees that 
indeed take the course towards the very end of the year. 
 
Due to the important and timely nature of the class content, the Commission should 
require every licensee to complete the class not later than July 1 of any calendar year. 
While it is not a complete solution, requiring completion by July 1, rather than 
December 31, reduces by six months the amount of time that a broker may be practicing 
with outdated knowledge. That amount of time is crucial given the amount of 
interactions a broker may have with clients on a daily basis. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the 
agency is necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. The third 
criterion looks at whether the existing rules and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest, 
considering other available regulatory mechanisms. The fourteenth criterion questions 
if administrative changes are necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the 
public interest. 
 
260 §§ 12-10-213, C.R.S. and 4 CCR 725-1-4.1, Rules Regarding Real Estate Brokers. 
