Executive Order D 2026 005 
May 22, 2026 
Page 2 of 3 
 
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
The Poitrey Canyon Fire in Las Animas County and associated impacts constitute 
a disaster emergency under C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq. Governor Polis’s verbal 
order of April 25, 2026, declaring a disaster emergency, is hereby memorialized 
by this Executive Order and shall have the full force and effect of law as if it were 
contained within this Executive Order. 
B. 
Governor Polis’s verbal order of April 25, 2026, activated the State Emergency 
Operations Plan. All State departments and agencies are authorized to take 
whatever actions may be required and requested by the Director or their delegate 
of the OEM, pursuant to the State Emergency Operations Plan, including 
provision of appropriate staff and equipment, as necessary. 
C. 
I direct State agencies to pursue all available federal funding for response and 
recovery operations. 
D. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-706(4)(b), funds in the Disaster Emergency Fund 
(DEF) are insufficient to pay for fire suppression, response, consequence 
management, mitigation, and recovery efforts related to the Poitrey Canyon Fire 
in Las Animas County. Therefore, I order that two million seven hundred seventy-
nine thousand dollars ($2,779,000) be transferred from the State Emergency 
Reserve Cash Fund (SERCF) to the DEF. I encumber two million seven hundred 
seventy-nine thousand dollars ($2,779,000) in the DEF to pay for fire suppression, 
response, consequence management, mitigation, and recovery efforts related to 
the Poitrey Canyon Fire in Las Animas County. 
E. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-705.4(5), the Director of the OEM is authorized and 
directed to allocate the funding described in Section II(D) to the appropriate 
government agencies and non-profit organizations and execute awards, purchase 
orders, or other mechanisms to effect the allocation of funds. The funds described 
in Section II(D) shall remain available for this purpose until seventy-two (72) 
months from the date of this Executive Order, and any unexpended funds shall 
remain in the DEF. 
 
 
 
 
 
