 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Administrative 
Copy of Regulations 
$5.00 per copy 
File Search 
$50.00 per search 
Non-Sufficient Funds 
$30.00 
Other Administrative Requested 
Services 
$30.00 per hour 
* Includes one reinspection 
B.  Failure to pay any fee required by subpart A of this Section is an unlawful act and, except as 
otherwise provided by Section 2, is subject to the assessment of a civil penalty of not more than 
$100 per day, until the fee is paid in full. 
Definitions  
Retail Food Establishments:  
(1) An onsite evaluation of a potential retail food establishment location. 
(2) An onsite inspection of an approved retail food establishment that has undergone a change in  
ownership or an establishment that otherwise needs an onsite inspection prior to opening and for  
which changes to the facility do not meet the requirements of a plan review.  
(3) A written document, based on HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point) principles  
developed by the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Food, which  
formally identifies specific hazards that can adversely affect the safety of a food product and  
proposes control measures to maintain food safety.  
(4) An observed process, based on HACCP principles developed by the National Advisory  
Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Food, that is conducted at an establishment, and  
which formally identifies specific hazards that can adversely affect the safety of a food product  
and provides control measures to maintain food safety.  
OWTS: 
(5) Repair, alteration, or addition to the soil treatment area (absorption area). 
(6) Repair or replacement of any portion of the system from the structure to the soil treatment  
area with the exception of repair or replacement of tank baffles and collapsed lines as depicted in  
the as-built drawings on file at Public Health.  
(7) Reinspection/Additional Inspection” is defined as an additional revisit, or inspection, of an  
OWTS by an EHS for purposes of ensuring compliance with installation and regulation standards  
or requirements. Typically, this occurs when a requested inspection of an installation was not  
complete, not in compliance, or has outstanding items (such as well/electrical verification) that  
must be verified to comply with the regulations.  
Childcare: 
Routine inspections are conducted every two years per licensing guidelines for an  
existing facility.  
Pre-operational inspections are required per licensing guidelines and are conducted  
upon request of the owner/operator prior to opening a new facility.  
Follow-up inspections are conducted at the discretion of Public Health as a follow-up  
to a routine or pre-operational inspection to assure follow-up and compliance with  
critical violations and other health hazards identified during a prior routine or  
pre-operational inspection.  
Room change inspections are required per licensing guidelines and are conducted at  
the request of the facility when room changes are being made.  
Approved by the Board of Health October 25, 2023 
