Executive Order D 2026 016 
September 3, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
to provide fire services are limited as Jackson County has one 12-member volunteer fire 
department to cover the entire county. On August 5, 2026, at approximately 12:06 PM, I verbally 
declared a disaster emergency due to the Indian Creek Fire in Jackson County, activated the State 
of Colorado Emergency Operations Plan, and directed the Office of Emergency Management 
(OEM) to take all necessary and appropriate State actions to assist the affected jurisdictions with 
their fire suppression, response, consequence management, mitigation, and recovery efforts. At 
the same time, I verbally authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado National 
Guard to respond to the Indian Creek Fire by providing fire suppression and response efforts. As 
of August 9, 2026, the Indian Creek Fire burned 30 acres in Jackson County and is 100% 
contained. 
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
The Indian Creek Fire and associated impacts constitute a disaster emergency 
under C.R.S. § 24-33.5-701, et seq. My verbal order of August 5, 2026, declaring 
a disaster emergency, is hereby memorialized by this Executive Order and shall 
have the full force and effect of law as if it were contained within this Executive 
Order. 
B. 
My verbal order of August 5, 2026, activated the State Emergency Operations 
Plan. All State departments and agencies are authorized to take whatever actions 
may be required and requested by the Director or their delegate of the Office of 
Emergency Management pursuant to the State Emergency Operations Plan, 
including provision of appropriate staff and equipment, as necessary. 
C. 
Further, pursuant to C.R.S. § 28-3-104, this Executive Order hereby memorializes 
my verbal order of August 5, 2026, authorizing employing unarmed members of 
the Colorado National Guard to support fire suppression and response efforts as 
deemed necessary by the CDPS for the Indian Creek Fire, and my verbal 
authorization has the full force and effect of law as if it were contained within this 
Executive Order. 
D. 
I direct State agencies to pursue all available federal funding for response and 
recovery operations. 
E. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-33.5-706(4)(b), funds in the Disaster Emergency Fund 
(DEF) are insufficient to pay for fire suppression, response, consequence 
management, mitigation, and recovery efforts related to the Indian Creek Fire. 
Therefore, I order that one million ninety-four thousand dollars ($1,094,000) be 
transferred from the State Emergency Reserve Cash Fund (SERCF) to the DEF. I 
encumber one million ninety-four thousand dollars ($1,094,000) in the DEF to  
