D 2026 006 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
No State Funds Shall be Used for Conversion Therapy 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution, I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order directing that no State 
funds shall be used for conversion therapy.  
 
Background and Purpose 
My administration believes in a Colorado for All, where every person - no matter who 
they love or how they identify - can thrive, belong, and be free. Conversion therapy, also referred 
to as “sexual orientation and gender identity change efforts” or “reparative therapy,” is contrary 
to this ethos and threatens the well-being of LGBTQ+ Coloradans, particularly LGBTQ+ youth. 
The State has a vested interest in saving taxpayer money and in protecting LGBTQ+ individuals 
- and state taxpayers - from the promotion and funding of this inhumane treatment.  
Conversion therapy refers to a range of discredited practices with the intended goal of 
changing or discouraging an individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity. According to the 
American Psychiatric Association, these practices are based on the outdated assumption that 
“diverse sexual orientations and gender identities are mental illnesses” and being LGBTQ+ is 
something to be “cured.”  
Research points to the inefficacy and often long-lasting harms associated with conversion 
therapy, particularly among youth, including increased risks of depression, anxiety, and 
suicidality. In Colorado, LGBTQ+ youth who were subjected to or threatened with conversion 
therapy were more than twice as likely to have attempted suicide than their counterparts, 
according to a 2024 survey from the Trevor Project, a non-profit suicide prevention 
organization.  
Medical associations and other professional groups have resoundingly opposed 
conversion therapy. These include the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 
the American Counseling Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the American 
Psychological Association, the National Association of School Psychologists, the American 
Academy of Family Physicians, the American Academy of Nursing, the American Academy of 
Pediatrics, and the American Medical Association, among several others.  
JARED Pous 
GOV1!RNOR 
I. 
136 STATE CAPITOL 
DBNVBR, COLORADO 80203 
TBL 303-866-2471 
FAx 303-866-2003 
