 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
2025 Sunset Reviews of Advisory Committees 
 
Sunset the Business Intelligence Center Advisory 
Board. 
 
The Business Intelligence Center Advisory Board was 
established in 2016 under the Secretary of State. The 
purpose of the Board is to assist the Secretary in 
operating the Business Intelligence Center, which is 
a program that seeks to streamline access to public 
data throughout the state. After nine years, the 
Secretary now has the necessary expertise to operate 
the Center without the Board. Therefore, the 
General Assembly should sunset the Board. 
 
Continue the Compliance Advisory Panel. 
 
The Compliance Advisory Panel was created in 1992 
under the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment. The purpose of this Panel is to render 
advisory opinions to the Department regarding its 
Small Business Assistance Program. Even though the 
Panel is currently not meeting, the federal Clean Air 
Act requires its existence. As such, the General 
Assembly should continue the Panel. 
 
Continue the Colorado Food Systems Advisory 
Council. 
 
In 2010, the General Assembly created the Colorado 
Food 
Systems 
Advisory 
Council 
to 
focus, 
predominantly, 
on 
increasing 
access 
for 
all 
Coloradans to healthy food and to assist with the 
growth of local food systems and economies in the 
Colorado agricultural sector.  Housed within Colorado 
State University, the Advisory Council fulfills an 
essential role through the expertise it provides and 
the relationships it develops to help ensure the 
future security and expansion of Colorado’s food 
systems. Therefore, the General Assembly should 
continue the Advisory Council. 
 
 
 
 
Continue the Colorado Forest Health Council. 
 
The Colorado Forest Health Council was created in 
2016 to provide a collaborative forum to advise 
policy makers on a variety of issues regarding 
Colorado’s forests.  Housed in the Department of 
Natural Resources, the Council’s directive to 
provide legislative recommendations on an annual 
basis is valuable for addressing and elevating 
pertinent forest health needs.  Therefore, the 
General Assembly should continue the Council. 
 
Sunset the Kidney Disease Prevention and 
Education Task Force. 
 
The Kidney Disease Prevention and Education Task 
Force was established in 2021 to work with 
policymakers, 
nonprofit 
organizations 
and 
healthcare entities to increase awareness regarding 
kidney 
disease 
throughout 
Colorado. 
It 
is 
anticipated that the work of the Task Force will be 
completed prior to the statutory repeal date of 
September 1, 2026, with the anticipated release of 
the Task Force’s final report in August 2026. 
Therefore, the General Assembly should sunset the 
Task Force. 
 
Sunset the Veterinary Pharmaceutical Advisory 
Committee. 
 
The 
Veterinary 
Pharmaceutical 
Advisory 
Committee was created in 2016 under the State 
Board of Pharmacy in the Division of Professions 
and Occupations to address the Pharmacy Board’s 
oversight of pharmaceuticals related to the 
practice of veterinary medicine.  Since the 
Pharmacy Board has referred no cases to the 
Advisory Committee since 2021 and since the 
Pharmacy Board can retain the services of an 
expert should the need arise, the General Assembly 
should sunset the Advisory Committee. 
