 
 
 
 
4 | P a g e 
Meetings of the Board 
 
The Board meets at the discretion of the chairperson.17 It did not have any meetings in 
either fiscal year 23-24 or 24-25. It last met in December 2022. 
 
 
 
Proposals and Their Status 
 
The Board did not make any proposals in fiscal year 23-24 or 24-25 as it did not meet in 
either year. 
 
 
Reasons for Sunset 
 
The Board is charged with assisting the Secretary in operating the Center. Following its 
creation in 2016, the Secretary relied heavily on the Board.  
 
When it met, the Board consisted of representatives from OIT, SIPA, OEDIT, and the 
Governor’s Office. This combination of perspectives was crucial, because public data 
was so disorganized and sporadically placed amongst various agencies. A statewide 
conversation between agencies to craft a more organized, singular approach was 
needed. The Board provided a perfect forum within which this could happen. 
Additionally, the Center is authorized to solicit feedback from the business community 
to identify research tools and the types of public data that would be helpful.18 The 
Center accomplished this by turning to the Board, which includes members from the 
nonprofit community or the private sector. 
 
All of these efforts culminated in the creation of the Colorado Information Marketplace 
(Marketplace). The Marketplace serves as the state’s central, open data platform. Any 
member of the public may access the Marketplace’s website.  
 
The website contains research tools and datasets of economic, public, and financial 
information that might be useful to members of the public.19 Datasets available on the 
website include:20 
 
• Business registrations, 
• Corporate transactions, 
• Trademarks and trade names,  
• Charity registrations,  
• Elections data,  
 
17 § 24-21-116(4)(c), C.R.S. 
18 § 24-21-116(3)(c), C.R.S. 
19 Colorado Information Marketplace. Open Data Portal. Retrieved September 1, 2025, from 
https://data.colorado.gov 
20 Colorado Secretary of State. Colorado Information Marketplace. Retrieved September 1, 2025, from 
https://www.sos.state.co.us/pubs/info_center/COinfoMarket.html 
