 
 
 
 
5 | P a g e 
• Lobbyists in Colorado,  
• Notary information, and  
• Uniform Commercial Code filings. 
 
The Marketplace generates substantial web traffic and is updated by the Secretary. 
These efforts would not have been possible without the Board.  
 
In addition to developing and maintaining the Marketplace, the Center focuses on 
holding contests to develop application software that improves the publishing and 
formatting of public data, as it is authorized to do in statute.21 The Center’s contest 
was known as Go Code Colorado, and was held yearly until 2022. It provided challenges 
for software developers, entrepreneurs, and analysts to use public data to solve 
business problems. Any interested entity, such as entrepreneurs, analysts, and 
academic institutions could form teams and compete. Cash rewards were available for 
winners of these contests. The six winners of the 2021 contest, for example, received 
$80,000.22  
 
The contests helped the Secretary to discover helpful public data, along with new 
research tools, that can be implemented into the Marketplace. Given the amount of 
public cooperation needed to hold these contests, the Secretary relied largely on the 
assistance of the Board.  
 
However, interest in the contest has dwindled in recent years. The Secretary and the 
Board had substantial difficulty finding contestants for the 2021 and 2022 contests, 
particularly because they had gone virtual. Additionally, when the General Assembly 
passed its “Long Bill” in 2023, under Senate Bill 23-214, the Center received less funding 
as it had in previous years. As such, the Center decided to create a smaller, more 
targeted contest known as the InnovateCO data challenge.23 Given the smaller scope, 
and the fact that the Secretary had amassed nine years of experience with the larger 
Go Code contest, the assistance of the Board was no longer needed.  
 
There seems to be no work left for the Board to complete. It held the necessary 
interagency conversations, which helped establish the Marketplace, the main goal of 
HB 1014. Moreover, the Secretary no longer holds Go Code contests. The Secretary once 
relied heavily on the advice of the Board to implement these contests.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 § 24-21-116(3)(d), C.R.S. 
22 Colorado Secretary of State. Go Code Colorado Business Solutions Challenge Winners Announced  Retrieved 
September 1, 2025, from 
https://www.sos.state.co.us/pubs/newsRoom/pressReleases/2021/PR20210528GoCode.html 
23 Colorado Secretary of State. Colorado Secretary of State’s Office Presents the Inaugural InnovateCO Forum & 
Data Challenge. Retrieved September 1, 2025, from 
https://www.sos.state.co.us/pubs/newsRoom/pressReleases/2023/PR20230110BIC.html 
