 
 
 
 
8 | P a g e 
• Two members who are owners of or who represent small business stationary 
sources, one appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and one 
appointed by the Minority Leader of that chamber; 
• Two members who are or who represent owners of small business stationary 
sources, one appointed by the President of the Senate and one appointed by the 
Minority Leader of that chamber; 
• Two members who do not own a small business stationary source, appointed by 
the Governor, to represent the public; and 
• One member selected by the Executive Director of CDPHE to represent the 
department. 
 
The Panel underwent a sunset review pursuant to Title 24, Colorado Revised Statutes 
(C.R.S.), in 2014. That year, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory 
Reform (COPRRR) recommended that the General Assembly continue the panel for 11 
years and extend the terms of Panel members to three years. COPRRR also 
recommended that future sunset reviews of the Panel adhere to the standards set for 
advisory boards in Title 2, C.R.S., rather than the standards set for regulatory agencies 
and functions as set forth in Title 24, C.R.S. The General Assembly agreed with each of 
these recommendations and subsequently passed Senate Bill 15-103. 
 
In 2022, the General Assembly also passed Senate Bill 22-013, which made changes to 
various boards, panels, and commissions. The bill added language stating that terms of 
members in the Panel shall be staggered, so that no more than four members’ terms 
expire in the same year. 
 
 
Responsibilities of the Panel 
 
The Panel is required to:34 
 
• Render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the Program, whether 
any difficulties were encountered, the degree of enforcement, and severity of 
penalties;  
• Make periodic reports to the Governor and the EPA; 
• Review information for small business stationary sources to ensure it is 
understandable by the layperson; and  
• Advise the Program, which shall serve as the secretariat for the creation and 
distribution of such reports and advisory opinions. 
 
The Program is housed under CDHPE’s Air Pollution Control Division. The Program 
provides free resources, guides, support, and education to help small business 
stationary sources in Colorado understand environmental regulations.35 
 
34 § 25-7-109.2(2), C.R.S. 
35 Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. Small Business Assistance Program. Retrieved 
September 12, 2025, from https://cdphe.colorado.gov/small-business-assistance-program 
