 
 
 
 
10 | P a g e 
Once the Program was fully functional, the Panel continued to be a useful source for 
CDPHE. Given the wide array of small business stationary sources, it was vital to help 
CDPHE provide guidance to different industries. It also helped CDPHE investigate 
whether guidance was needed for new industries. Given the variety of types of small 
businesses involved, Panel members represented a range of industries and were able to 
identify areas that needed state guidance. 
 
The Panel underwent a sunset review in 2004 and 2014. The Panel was continued in 
2005 as different industries and sectors of the regulated community were still awaiting 
guidance from the Program. The 2014 sunset report identified that some sectors still 
needed guidance, hence its continuation.  
 
However, the 2014 sunset review noted that there was a growing lack of interest in the 
Panel. There was frequent turnover and delays in the appointment process, which 
meant the Panel lacked a quorum for several months and meetings were continuously 
rescheduled. Hence, the report recommended to extend the terms of the Panel 
members to three years to allow members to accrue institutional knowledge and reduce 
the time spent recruiting and appointing new members. This was adopted by the 
General Assembly.  
 
Despite the change, the Panel continued to struggle in the area of appointments and 
attaining a quorum. In 2019, CDPHE attempted to revitalize the Panel.  However, this 
was unsuccessful. Subsequent assessment by CDPHE reaffirmed the systemic difficulties 
in implementing an effective advisory committee. Senate Bill 22-013, which added 
language staggering the terms of members of the Panel, has not solved the quorum 
issue either. 
 
In 2023, CDPHE surveyed other states to better understand how their panels are 
structured. In 1999, 45 states had an operational panel. By 2023, only 15 of the 34 
responding states reported having such a panel. Five of the states had active panels 
that were meeting four or more times a year. The remaining 10 were operating at a 
reduced capacity.  
 
State programs were required to make yearly reports to the EPA regarding the 
program’s compliance with various federal acts, such as the Paperwork Reduction Act, 
the Regulatory Flexibility Act, and the Equal Access to Justice Act.39 State programs 
also send statistics and report on the progress of their air quality goals. However, the 
EPA no longer collects data from state programs. The EPA currently contracts with a 
third-party organization, the National Small Business Environmental Assistance Program, 
to which states can voluntarily submit data. According to their website, only 10 states 
continue to provide information about their compliance advisory panels.40  
 
Given these challenges with implementation and stakeholder feedback, CDPHE made a 
decision in 2023 to shift its focus to the ombudsman and Program. Small businesses 
work closely and actively with both and have not inquired of CDPHE about the Panel in 
 
39 42 U.S.C. § 7661f(e)(1)(B) 
40 National Small Business Environmental Assistance Program. Compliance Advisory Panel. Retrieved September 12, 
2025, from https://nationalsbeap.org/states/cap 
