 
 
 
 
18 | P a g e 
• Recommendation - Accessible, accurate and detailed Colorado food 
purchasing data. 
o Establish shared metrics across state agencies implementing local food 
procurement incentive programs. 
o Collect local food procurement data from multiple state agencies into a 
centralized database. 
o Publish statewide market prices and information reports. 
o Actions taken: 
 Nourish Colorado is leading and executing a data-driven initiative 
to analyze and visually display food purchasing patterns associated 
with the Local Food Program (LFP) and Local Food for Schools (LFS) 
across Colorado. 
 The Advisory Council initiated ongoing research into the landscape 
of 
state-administered 
food 
systems 
programs, 
including 
identification of relevant state and federal funding streams. This 
work is intended to generate resources that support interagency 
collaboration and guide strategic investment. 
• Recommendation - Coordination and increased awareness of Colorado food 
and agricultural technical assistance offerings. 
o Create and maintain a centralized database of technical assistance 
providers including the services they offer. 
o Create and maintain a centralized database of food delivery providers and 
routes across Colorado. 
o Actions taken: 
 Colorado State University Extension developed a centralized, 
publicly accessible database of technical assistance providers 
across Colorado, with descriptions of each provider’s services, 
using Farm to Loading Dock interview data. 
 Nourish Colorado created the Know Who Sells map as part of the 
Local Food Program Guidebook. This resource identifies the 
counties served by each Colorado food hub, improving transparency 
and enabling buyers to more effectively identify distributors 
serving their region. 
• Recommendation - Support regionally responsive and statewide connected 
value chain coordination. 
o Develop training to ensure shared language and understanding of value 
chain coordination. 
o Establish clear lines of communication between state agencies, statewide 
technical assistance providers, and regional nodes, fostering two-way 
channels. 
o Continue to utilize established marketing tools. 
o Actions taken: 
 Colorado State University Extension convened a working group of 
state agencies administering food and agriculture programs in 
