 
 
 
 
19 | P a g e 
Colorado. This group facilitated interagency dialogue and produced 
a working inventory of state programs, establishing a foundation 
for improved alignment and resource sharing. 
 The Northwest and Rocky Mountain Regional Food Business Center 
developed a training course focused on Colorado value-chain 
coordination. 
 Advisory Council is undertaking a statewide assessment to map food 
and agriculture programs and funding streams. This ongoing effort 
seeks to identify trends in food systems funding across the state. 
• Recommendation - Culinary capacity for cooking and prep required for 
scratch-cooking in institutional settings – including equipment, staffing, and 
cultural shifts. 
o Invest in consistent and robust culinary and operational skills training and 
professional development. 
o Funding for kitchen infrastructure and equipment to support scratch-
cooking. 
o Incentivize local and fresh food procurement for all taxpayer funded 
institutional meal programs. 
o Develop resources for promotion of local and scratch cooking in 
institutions. 
o Actions taken: 
 House Bill 25-1274 was signed into law, referring Proposition LL and 
Proposition MM to Colorado voters. If approved, the measures 
would: 
• Ensure continuation of universal school meals statewide;  
• Extend the Local Food Purchasing Program pilot; and 
• Initiate a phased approach to Healthy School Meals for All 
(HSMA) grant programs focused on local procurement, 
technical assistance, and wages for school nutrition 
professionals. 
• Recommendation - Fruit and vegetable processing capacity. 
o Work to assure utilization of existing local and regional processing 
facilities to meet institutional processing needs before investing in new 
capacity. 
o Create a fund for co-packing space and on-farm processing. 
o Collect and share data on preferred products including final processed 
form and quantities needed by institutional buyers. 
o Educate and train existing processors about institutional food needs. 
o Actions taken: 
 The Advisory Council’s Institutional Procurement Working Group 
convened Colorado food hubs for discussions focused on local 
procurement practices and food tracking systems. 
