 
 
 
 
21 | P a g e 
• Recommendation – Deepen understanding of local and non-local food 
aggregation and purchasing dynamics in Colorado. 
o Collaborate with Colorado food hubs to better understand how they work 
with producers, consumers, and institutions to aggregate and distribute 
local food across the state. 
o Examine how broadline distributors purchase and track both local and non-
local foods. 
o Work with Colorado producers, food hubs, distributors, and institutions to 
develop policy and programmatic strategies that promote viable local 
food purchasing practices. 
o Actions taken: 
 Nourish Colorado conducted research into Colorado procurement 
guidelines and values-based purchasing, which culminated in a 
research roadmap. 
 The Advisory Council’s Institutional Procurement Working Group 
convened panel discussions featuring Colorado food hubs and 
engaged state agencies, nonprofits, and aggregators in cross-sector 
conversations on local food purchasing. 
 The Advisory Council’s Institutional Procurement Working Group, 
alongside statewide partners, is conducting in-depth research into 
federal and state food procurement guidelines, which will support 
the development of a visual diagram. 
 The Advisory Council’s Institutional Procurement Working Group, in 
partnership with Nourish Colorado, is conducting interviews with 
broadline distributors to better understand their food purchasing 
and tracking mechanisms. Findings will contribute to an issue brief 
on institutional food procurement. 
 
In addition to conducting research, Advisory Council members and staff have 
represented the Advisory Council in advisory roles across a range of statewide 
committees. These coalitions have supported the planning of statewide events, 
informed research initiatives, and shaped policy development. In fiscal years 22-23 and 
24-25, this has included participation on the following committees: 
• Colorado Food Summit Regional Convenings Statewide Steering Committee 
o Advisory Council members and staff served on the statewide steering 
committee for a series of 15 regional food systems convenings held across 
Colorado in early 2025. The steering committee provided strategic input 
on the overall event framework and the development of post-event 
evaluation tools. Each convening was planned and executed by a regional 
host committee, which identified local focus areas, managed logistics, 
and engaged the community to deliver the events. 
o Actions taken: 
