 
 
 
 
22 | P a g e 
 Convenings 
engaged 
over 
1,000 
Coloradans, 
including 
representatives from more than 300 statewide organizations, in 
discussions on regional food and agriculture. A significant number 
of event attendees were producers, helping to ensure that event 
outcomes are grounded in the perspectives and experiences of 
Colorado farmers and ranchers. 
 Convenings and post-event surveys identified regional food systems 
priorities and corresponding community-based solutions and policy 
strategies at the local and state levels. Colorado State University 
Extension and the Colorado Blueprint to End Hunger are leading a 
broader effort to continue distributing this survey and ensure 
resulting information is accessible and actionable across the food 
system. 
 Insights gathered during these convenings will directly inform the 
structural design and priority areas of the 2026 Colorado Food 
Summit. 
 The Colorado Blueprint to End Hunger is leveraging event outcomes 
and survey findings in the development of a statewide food systems 
tracker. 
• Nutrition Network Project Nutrition Engagement Advisory Team 
o Advisory Council staff served on this advisory committee guiding research 
led by the Rocky Mountain Prevention Research Center and the Colorado 
Department of Human Services. The project will utilize social network 
analysis 
to 
examine 
collaborative 
dynamics 
between 
Colorado 
organizations focused on nutrition education. 
• Healthy School Meals for All Technical Advisory Group Focus Groups 
o In accordance with House Bill 24-1390, the Colorado Department of 
Education convened the HSMA Technical Advisory Group and several 
stakeholder focus groups. Advisory Council staff participated in these 
focus groups, which met multiple times to develop recommendations on 
the future of the HSMA program, including strategies for improving 
program implementation and sustainability. 
o Actions taken: 
 Recommendations from the HSMA focus group sessions informed a 
report submitted to the Joint Budget Committee (JBC). 
 Farm to Loading Dock research was cited in the final report to the 
JBC to underscore the need for grant programs that provide 
technical assistance for school food authorities. 
 House Bill 25-1274 was signed into law, referring Proposition LL and 
Proposition MM to Colorado voters. If approved, the measures 
would: 
• Ensure continuation of universal school meals statewide; 
