 
 
 
 
28 | P a g e 
investments in these programs could expand the forestry and wildfire mitigation 
workforce in Colorado by increasing the number of participants exiting the 
programs with skills needed to enter the industry. DNR’s Colorado Strategic 
Wildfire Action Program supports both CYCA and SWIFT crews in wildfire 
mitigation while the State Forest Service’s Forest Restoration and Wildfire Risk 
Mitigation (FRWRM) grants favor proposals which engage CYCA. 
 
Consistent investments in Good Neighbor Authority. 
The Good Neighbor Authority (GNA) program allows the U.S. Forest Service 
(USFS) and U.S Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to enter into cooperative 
agreements with states to perform forest, rangeland and watershed restoration 
projects on federal lands. Under the agreement, the State Forest Service has the 
authority to conduct forest treatments on National Forests and BLM lands in 
Colorado, complementing work on state and private lands. Specific benefits of 
the GNA include greater efficiencies and less need for creating and maintaining 
roads to address project work. Eligible projects include those that protect water 
supplies, manage bark beetles, reduce wildfire risk and meet other forest 
management objectives. The Council recommended increasing the amount 
and/or consistency of funding for GNA work.  
 
Invest in local/state agency planning and project management capacity.  
As more money becomes available for implementing forest management, there 
are concerns about bottlenecks in the pipeline of “shovel ready” projects due to 
inadequate local, state and federal staff to plan and manage projects. The 
Council recommended that the General Assembly make additional resources 
available to help local governments and state agencies hire additional capacity 
for this work. 
 
Create incentives for private industry (logging and grazing).  
The Council recommended creating incentives for private industry in logging and 
grazing. Colorado has some existing incentives for private industry, including the 
Forest Business Loan Fund (FBLF), a revolving loan program, and historically had 
a state sales tax exemption for beetle-killed wood. The Council recommended 
the following: 
 
● Creating a state cost-share wood products industry internship program, 
● Additional investments in the FBLF through Healthy Forests - Vibrant 
Communities, and 
● Creating more public-private partnerships to reduce barriers to grazing 
for fuels reduction.  
 
The Council’s recommendations on “Invest in workforce development programs” and 
“Consistent investments in GNA” resulted in Senate Bill 23-005, the Forestry and 
Wildfire Mitigation Workforce Bill. The bill had bipartisan sponsorship and allocated 
$2.6 million in fiscal year 23-24 and $2.1 million in fiscal year 24-25. The bill contained 
five components that support the development of Colorado’s forestry workforce: 
