 
 
 
 
29 | P a g e 
• Educational materials for high school guidance counselors and students related 
to forestry and wildfire mitigation professions;  
• A cost share program for timber businesses, forest health or wildfire mitigation 
entities to hire interns; 
• $1 million appropriated annually to the Colorado Strategic Wildfire Action 
Program; 
• The development and expansion of forestry programs at community colleges, 
including the acquisition of a forestry simulator; and  
• The development of a recruitment program for wildland fire prevention and 
mitigation educators for community colleges, area technical colleges and local 
district colleges. This program received an annual General Fund appropriation of 
$250,000.  
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Council made the following recommendations to the WMRC: 
 
Annual Appropriation for GNA. 
Recognizing the importance of the GNA program, as described above, the Council 
recommended the appropriation of additional dollars for GNA work.  
  
Appropriate $1 million specifically for capacity building through the FRWRM 
Grant Program for three years. 
The FRWRM Grant Program funds two types of projects: fuels and forest health 
projects (implementation on the ground) and capacity building. Language for 
capacity building projects in the original legislation allowed applicants to 
purchase equipment for project implementation. In 2021, Senate Bill 21-258 
made several changes to the FRWRM grant program. These changes included 
expanding eligibility for Capacity Grant projects to those providing local 
governments, community groups, and collaborative forestry groups with the 
resources and staffing necessary to plan and implement forest restoration and 
wildfire risk mitigation projects. Other eligible capacity building costs include 
community and partner outreach and engagement, identifying priority project 
areas, prescription planning and acquiring community equipment for use by 
landowners. FRWRM’s Capacity Grants were funded with up to 25 percent of the 
total FRWRM funds available, and the program had an annual appropriation of $8 
million.  The Council recommended that an additional appropriation of $1 million 
per year for three years, in addition to the 25 percent of existing FRWRM funds, 
to the FRWRM Capacity Grants program.  
 
Pilot a statewide mitigation day(s) for counties to support private landowner 
slash68 accumulation through curbside removal. 
Biomass challenges are experienced at all levels of mitigation and forestry work. 
To make progress on removing biomass from the landscape at a property scale, 
the Council recommended the creation of a pilot program in interested counties. 
These pilot programs would offer mitigation day(s) where private landowners 
 
68 “Slash” generally refers to leaf and tree waste associated with logging. 
