 
 
 
 
30 | P a g e 
could utilize county resources to remove slash created through mitigation and 
thinning.  
 
Annual appropriation for the State Forest Service nursery for staff and 
facilities and equipment maintenance. 
Nursery sales help to cover State Forest Service operating expenses; seedlings 
are thus cost prohibitive in large reforestation and conservation projects. The 
Council recommended an annual appropriation covering staff and facility 
expenses, the price of seedlings could be lower and accessible to more projects.  
 
Support seed collection and reforestation.  
There are limited resources in the state for seed collection and reforestation, 
particularly conifer seeds throughout the southern Rockies and Southwest United 
States. Building capacity in this specific skill set is important to increase the rate 
and success of reforestation. The Council recommended funding for entities 
already doing this work along with investments in workforce development.  The 
Council’s recommendation consisted of three parts:  
a. Workforce development: Create a State Seed Collection and 
Reforestation Corps. 
b. Create and fund a state grant program to broadly support seed collection 
and storage, post-fire reforestation and revegetation project 
implementation and monitoring programs. 
c. Fund a Gap Analysis Study of the Reforestation Pipeline in Colorado to 
direct investment to areas of greatest need and identify the most 
impactful role for the state. 
 
The Council’s recommendation regarding “Pilot a statement mitigation day(s) for 
counties to support private landowner slash accumulation through curbside removal” 
resulted in Senate Bill 24-009, which did not become law. 
 
In fiscal year 24-25, the Council made the following recommendations to the WMRC: 
 
Additional Capacity Support for Forest Restoration and Wildfire Risk 
Mitigation. 
The Council recommended that the General Assembly appropriate $1 million 
specifically for capacity building through the FRWRM grant program for at least 
one year, subject to available appropriations thereafter. The Council 
recommended that an additional $1 million per year be appropriated specifically 
for capacity requests for at least one year, in addition to the 25 percent of 
existing FRWRM funds. In total $3 million would be available for capacity support, 
up from $2 million.  
 
Expand the State Forest Service Internship Program. 
The Council recommended expanding and funding the State Forest Service 
Internship Program to include higher education programs located close to State 
Forest Service field offices. Due to increasing forest health challenges, it is 
