 
 
 
 
31 | P a g e 
vitally important for the State Forest Service to invest in comprehensive training 
of the future workforce by permanently funding the State Forest Service 
Internship Program established in 2018. In Senate Bill 23-005, Colorado identified 
a need to find qualified and trained employees for the state’s timber, forest 
health, and wildfire mitigation industries. The legislation recognized that 
students who wish to pursue careers in these industries face barriers to entry, 
such as lack of access to training programs and internship experiences that would 
provide real-world work experience. The State Forest Service Internship Program 
provides opportunities for student interns to seek permanent positions within the 
agency and with State Forest Service partners across Colorado and beyond. The 
internship program’s two major goals are to increase professional development 
opportunities for students in forestry-related fields of study and to provide 
expanded seasonal staffing for State Forest Service projects and activities. Since 
its inception in 2018, the State Forest Service Internship Program has expanded 
from 5 interns to 21 interns in 2024. 
 
Forestry career pathway awareness for students.  
The Council recommended expanding forestry career pathway awareness in 
middle schools and high schools. Colorado State University Extension serves all 
of Colorado’s 64 counties with non-credit programming for audiences from youth 
to older adults. This proposal addressed the need identified by the Council to 
reach youth and young adult audiences with education and career skills and 
provide workforce exposure and opportunities. Specifically, the Council sought 
to catalyze and increase youth engagement and career opportunities in the areas 
of forestry, wildland fire, and natural resources in select counties within two 
targeted Colorado regions – the Front Range and the Mountains. It is envisioned 
that this project would take place over a three-year period beginning July 2025 
and ending June 2028. Its primary focus would be in five Front Range counties 
(along the mountain backdrop area) and five Mountain Region counties. 
 
Colorado Community Navigator Program. 
The Council recommended that the General Assembly direct the State Forest 
Service to create the “Rural Grant Navigator Grant Program” to provide grant 
money for non-governmental organizations providing outreach and technical 
assistance, including grant writing assistance, to rural communities seeking to 
apply for federal or state grants related to wildfire mitigation and preparedness. 
The Council further recommended that the General Assembly encourage the 
State Forest Service to consult with other departments on effective uses of 
money and successful outcomes to avoid duplicative efforts. The State Forest 
Service would be required to submit a report summarizing the program to the 
WMRC or the House and Senate Agriculture committees.  
 
The Council’s recommendation regarding “Colorado Community Navigator Program” 
was incorporated into House Bill 24-1006, which became law.  It appropriated $300,000 
in fiscal year 24-25 to create the grant program. 
 
