 
 
 
 
32 | P a g e 
Although few of the Council’s recommendations resulted in legislation, the number of 
proposals demonstrates that the Council is active in developing new ideas and ways to 
implement them.  Additionally, the Council’s recommendations align with the specific 
tasks set forth by the General Assembly. 
 
 
Reasons for Continuation 
 
The Council plays a vital role in identifying and addressing the state’s forest health and 
wildfire mitigation needs and gaps.  Approximately one-third (22.6 million acres) of 
Colorado’s land area consists of forested land, and approximately three-quarters of that 
consist of public lands.  Forests are an integral part of the state’s economy and are 
under pressure from insects and disease, and climate impacts such as wildfire and 
drought. 
 
The Council’s diverse membership provides unique and important voices, and some 
members collaborate with other commissions to ensure there is alignment between 
them on the broader wildfire lens. 
 
As required by statute, the Council adopted a 30-year Vision for Forest Health in April 
2025, creating a roadmap and vision to guide the Council and stakeholders. 
 
The Council has also undertaken various special projects to fulfill its statutory duties, 
including producing the Forest Resilience Planning Guide (Guide), which provides a 
framework for aligning community values, and technical and financial resources for 
forest management planning.    The goal of the Guide is to support communities, funders 
and policy makers in working together to develop and implement forest resilience 
strategies, to strengthen collaboration, integrate community values and access science-
based resources tailored to local landscapes. 
 
When budgets allow, the Council hosts two of its four annual meetings in person to 
provide an opportunity to meet with local and regional partners and learn about forest 
health challenges and successes. These in person meetings provide value to members 
and partners, as seeing the different forest types and treatment prescriptions on 
Council tours allow for a deeper understanding of forest health. 
 
Most importantly, the Council’s directive to provide legislative recommendations on an 
annual basis is valuable for addressing and elevating pertinent forest health needs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
