 
 
 
 
37 | P a g e 
 
Proposals and Their Status 
 
The Task Force has completed work related to its statutorily mandated purpose in the 
following manner: 
 
• Fiscal year 23-24:  
 
o The Task Force analyzed Medicaid and the Center for Improving Value in 
Healthcare (CIVHC) data to better understand costs and disparities related 
to kidney disease, particularly amongst minority populations.  
o Subject matter experts were utilized to share insights, and a public 
awareness campaign was proposed alongside discussions regarding 
financial modeling to support future legislative recommendations. 
 
• Fiscal year 24-25: 
 
o The Task Force further evaluated outreach and marketing strategies 
utilizing partnerships with Cohn Marketing and the National Kidney 
Foundation to increase kidney disease screening and avoid duplicative 
efforts. This proposal was later revised to include direct outreach to 
Colorado primary care providers through mail and email to increase 
provider awareness regarding patient screening.  
o The Task Force also began to evaluate additional policy proposals which 
included kidney disease testing as a part of routine annual health 
maintenance. 
 
The final report of the Task Force is scheduled to be released in August 2026. 
 
 
Reasons for Sunset 
 
During the 2025 General Assembly, Senate Bill 25-251 attempted to repeal the statutory 
provision which created the Task Force but failed to pass the House upon third reading. 
At the time, strategies related to the public outreach campaign were still in 
development, but it is anticipated that this work will be completed prior to the 
statutory repeal date of September 1, 2026, with the anticipated release of the Task 
Force’s final report in August 2026. 
 
The Task Force has worked diligently by analyzing related data sets, recruiting the 
assistance of experts, expanding outreach to primary care providers, and increasing 
public awareness regarding kidney disease and prevention screening. 
 
Collectively, the work performed by the Task Force during fiscal years 23-24 and 24-25 
fulfills the majority of its statutory mandates, and the Task Force has positioned the 
remainder of work to be completed through the contract established with the National 
Kidney Foundation. 
