 
6 
 
Definitions/Explanations 
Administrative Support: This hourly fee will be charged for the time it takes CSFD administrative staff to 
conduct record searches for expired permits, plans or inspection reports for current active projects, and 
inspection requests when record number is not provided at time of request.     
Construction Plan Check Fee: This fee will be collected by Pikes Peak Regional Building Department (PPRBD) 
upon plans being submitted through PPRBD’s plan portal.  This fee equates to a limited review, which is 
the smallest amount that CSFD will charge for review of a construction plan set.  If a full review and 
inspection is required for the project, then the plan check fee will be deducted from the total fee charged 
at time of CSFD plan approval.   
Convenience Inspection: A convenience inspection fee is assessed when a business or contractor requests 
an inspection outside the normal business hours of the Division of the Fire Marshal to accommodate their 
convenience.   
Expedited Plan Review: Allows plans to be moved to the front of the plan review queue.  Expedited plan 
reviews are available for all plans reviewed by the Division of the Fire Marshal, including extraterritorial 
reviews.  Expedited plan reviews are available on a first-come first-served basis, and the fee shall be paid 
at the time of the request.  The availability of expedited plan reviews are at the discretion of the fire code 
official based on staffing and/or resource availability.  Expedited plan reviews do not supersede rapid 
response reviews. 
Fire sprinkler, fire alarm, fixed fire, and water plan check fee:  This fee will be assessed at time of these 
plans being submitted in Accela.  This fee must be paid before plans are checked in for review.  This fee 
applies to all fire sprinkler, fire alarm, and fire suppression plans including 5-device letters and 20-head 
letters.   
High-Rise Building Surcharge: A one-time fee to cover the additional time for review, inspection and 
building commissioning that accompanies the complex nature of all high-rise structures. 
Limited Review: A limited review is when a review is performed by Fire Construction Services of a 
construction plan and the scope of work does not impact life safety and therefore the plans is marked “not 
applicable”, and no fire inspection is required.   
Performance Based Design Surcharge: A one-time fee to establish fire safety and engineering goals and 
objectives, fire model construction and evaluation, plan review, inspection, acceptance testing, and re-
evaluation of all performance-based designs, alternative materials and methods or other design 
alternatives when requested or at the plan reviewer’s discretion based on project scope.  In all cases the 
minimum fee shall be $2,000.  
Preliminary Inspection: A preliminary inspection fee is assessed when a business or contractor requests an 
inspector to perform a site evaluation of the scope of work to determine if work is being performed to all 
applicable codes and standards.   
Pre-Plan Submittal Consult: Time associated with a project during the design and planning stages. The 
assessed amount is cost recovery for staff during the consultation, similar to time spent during a plan 
review. A fee will not be assessed for meetings requiring thirty minutes or less. 
Re-Inspection: A fee assessed if an inspection is scheduled and any portion of the work is incomplete, 
and/or hazards are not abated in an allotted timeframe. Failure to provide access for a requested 
inspection, failure to maintain work in an exposed condition until the inspection is completed, deviation 
from approved plans, lack of sufficient documentation or required equipment or personnel to conduct the 
