-6- 
Title 1 – Elections 
Colorado Revised Statutes 2026 
Editor's note: This section is similar to former § 1-1-103 as it existed prior to 1992. 
 
ANNOTATION 
    Substantial compliance standard does 
not apply to the minimum signature 
requirements for candidate petitions. The 
language 
establishing 
signature 
requirements is clear and unequivocal and 
requires strict compliance. Griswold v. 
Ferrigno Warren, 2020 CO 34, 462 P.3d 
1081. 
 
1-1-104.    Definitions.   
As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(1)    "Abstract of votes cast" means a certified record of the results in each election for 
candidates for any office, ballot issue, or ballot question that the county clerk and recorder 
certified for the ballot. 
(1.1)    "Address of record" means the elector's place of residence or the elector's deliverable 
mailing address, if different from the elector's place of residence. 
(1.2)    "Affiliation" means an elector's decision to affiliate with either a political party or a 
political organization, as defined in subsections (24) and (25) of this section. 
(1.3)    "Assembly" means a meeting of delegates of a political party, organized in accordance 
with the rules and regulations of the political party, held for the purpose of designating 
candidates for nominations. 
(1.5)    "Authorizing legislation" means the provisions of the state constitution or statutes or of 
a local charter authorizing the existence and powers of a political subdivision and providing for 
the call and conduct of the political subdivision's election. 
(1.7)    "Ballot" means the list of all candidates, ballot issues, and ballot questions upon which 
an eligible elector is entitled to vote at an election. 
(2)    "Ballot box" means the locked and sealed container in which ballots are deposited by 
eligible electors. The term includes the container in which ballots are transferred from a polling 
location to the office of the designated election official and the transfer case in which electronic 
ballot cards and paper tapes and the "prom" or any other electronic tabulation device are sealed 
by election judges for transfer to the central counting center. 
(2.1)    "Ballot card" means the card, tape, or other vehicle on which an elector's votes are 
recorded in an electronic or electromechanical voting system. 
