Executive Order D 2026 009 
July 24, 2026 
Page 2 of 6 
 
This year, a very mild winter and record-low snowpack combined with record heat in 
March, and an exceptionally dry spring led to extreme and exceptional drought across large 
portions of the State. These conditions, coupled with a single weather event including hot, dry 
weather during the fire starts, increased wildfire risk. The days surrounding the fire starts were 
under nearly continuous Red Flag Warnings for extreme fire danger, and the National Weather 
Service office in Grand Junction issued a rare “Particularly Dangerous Situation” for portions of 
Western Colorado just prior to the fire starts. As a result of these dangerous conditions, Colorado 
is experiencing multiple wildfires in quick succession, requiring rapid response and resources to 
protect Coloradans and their homes and businesses.  
Fires  
On June 27, 2026, the Snyder Fire started on federal land in Utah. The fire quickly 
crossed the Colorado-Utah border and combined with the Jones and Knowles Fires. On June 27, 
at approximately 7:20 PM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency due to the Snyder Fire in 
Mesa County and activated the State of Colorado Emergency Operations Plan and directed the 
Office of Emergency Management (OEM) to take all necessary and appropriate State actions to 
assist the affected jurisdictions with their fire suppression, response, consequence management, 
mitigation, and recovery efforts. I also authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado 
National Guard to respond to the Snyder Fire by providing fire suppression support. The Snyder 
Fire tragically took the lives of three federal firefighters who initially responded to the Knowles 
Fire. As of July 23, the Snyder Fire has burned 30,202 acres and is 98% contained.  
 On June 27, 2026, the Gold Mountain Fire started in Ouray County on private land with 
inaccessible terrain approximately 2 miles northeast of Ouray. On June 28, at approximately 9:38 
AM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency due to the Gold Mountain Fire in Ouray County 
and activated the State of Colorado Emergency Operations Plan and directed the OEM to take all 
necessary and appropriate State actions to assist the affected jurisdictions with their fire 
suppression, response, consequence management, mitigation, and recovery efforts. I also 
authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard to respond to the Gold 
Mountain Fire by providing fire suppression support. On July 1, the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA) approved a Fire Management Assistance Grant (FMAG) for the 
Gold Mountain Fire after determining that the fire threatened such destruction that the fire would 
constitute a major disaster. The FMAG for this fire authorized the use of federal funds to help 
with firefighting costs. The Gold Mountain Fire tragically took the life of a helicopter pilot 
assisting firefighters in their response efforts. As of July 23, the Gold Mountain Fire has burned 
38,044 acres, has 8 households under mandatory evacuation, and is 24% contained.  
 
