Executive Order D 2026 009 
July 24, 2026 
Page 3 of 6 
 
On June 28, 2026, the Willow Fire started in Lake County near the Leadville National 
Fish Hatchery. On June 29, at approximately 10:34 AM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency 
due to the Willow Fire in Lake County and activated the State of Colorado Emergency 
Operations Plan and directed the OEM to take all necessary and appropriate State actions to 
assist the affected jurisdictions with their fire suppression, response, consequence management, 
mitigation, and recovery efforts. I also authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado 
National Guard to respond to the Willow Fire by providing fire suppression support. On July 5, 
FEMA approved a FMAG for the Willow Fire after determining that the fire threatened such 
destruction that the fire would constitute a major disaster. The FMAG for this fire authorized the 
use of federal funds to help with firefighting costs. As of July 23, the Willow Fire has burned 
7,196 acres, has approximately 7 households under mandatory evacuation and is 51% contained. 
On June 29, the Aspen Acres Fire started in Custer and Pueblo Counties near Aspen 
Acres Campground near Rye and Beulah. On June 29, at approximately 10:34 AM, I verbally 
declared a disaster emergency due to the Aspen Acres Fire in Custer and Pueblo Counties and 
activated the State of Colorado Emergency Operations Plan and directed the OEM to take all 
necessary and appropriate State actions to assist the affected jurisdictions with their fire 
suppression, response, consequence management, mitigation, and recovery efforts. I also 
authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard to respond to the 
Aspen Acres Fires by providing fire suppression support. On June 30, FEMA approved a FMAG 
for the Aspen Acres Fire after determining that the fire threatened such destruction that the fire 
would constitute a major disaster. The FMAG for this fire authorized the use of federal funds to 
help with firefighting costs. As of July 23, the Aspen Acres Fire has burned 101,546 acres, has 
destroyed 347 structures, has approximately 181 households under mandatory evacuation 
including those living in Fremont County, and is 61% contained.  
Due to the rapid succession in which these fires occurred and the magnitude of acreage 
impacted, the State may need to utilize EMS workforce outside of the State to assist in fire 
response and recovery efforts. Therefore, I temporarily suspend the requirements of C.R.S. § 25-
3.5-202, § 25-3.5-203, and § 25-3.5-206 and corresponding regulations in 6 CCR 1015-3, 
Chapter 2 for currently certified or licensed out-of-state EMS providers. The suspensions of 
these statutes and regulations will allow for more flexibility for qualified non-Compact state 
EMS providers to help CDPS with fire response and recovery efforts, especially if there is a need 
greater than our in-State workforce.  
This Executive Order memorializes these verbal declarations and extends these 
declarations for an additional thirty (30) days due to ongoing need for fire suppression, response, 
consequence management, mitigation and recovery efforts. 
 
