 
 
6 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Profile of the Professions  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what the 
profession does, where they work, who they serve and any necessary qualifications. 
 
During the 1920s and 1930s, the movie industry and the increase in beauty culture, 
contributed to the beauty industry beginning to thrive in the United States. 
Consequently, beauty schools began to form across the country and offered training in 
hairdressing, makeup and other various beauty services.2  
 
There are a variety of professions included in the beauty industry such as: 
 
• Barbers, 
• Cosmetologists, 
• Estheticians, 
• Hairstylists, and 
• Nail technicians. 
 
Barbers perform certain services, including, but not limited to: cutting, coloring and 
chemically treating hair.   Barbers also perform a range of other services such as beard 
trims, shaving, and scalp treatments.3  
 
Cosmetologists are trained to perform services such as cosmetic treatments to the hair, 
skin and nails.  Certain services include, but are not limited to cutting, coloring and 
chemically treating hair, hair removal, nail and skin care, skin and hair analysis, 
wellness and spa treatments, fashion trends as well as various makeup specialties.4   
 
Estheticians are skincare professionals who provide services to consumers.  Specifically, 
estheticians provide cosmetic treatments such as facials,  exfoliation, hair removal and 
makeup application.5  Essentially, estheticians focus on enhancing the skin’s tone, 
texture and overall vitality while addressing issues such as sun damage and aging.6  
 
2 The Salon Professional Academy.  The History of Cosmetology School:  A Look Back.  Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
https://www.tspacoloradosprings.com/blog/the-history-of-cosmetology-school-a-look-
back/?utm_campaign=fmsOrganic&mid=2839 
3 Career Explorer.  What does a Barber Do?  Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
https://www.careerexplorer.com/careers/barber/ 
4 Douglas J Aveda Institute.  What is a Cosmetologist?  Retrieved July 3, 2025, from https://douglasj.edu/what-is-
a-cosmetologist/ 
5 Very Well Health.  Esthetician:  What They Do, How to Become One, and Salaries.  Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
https://www.verywellhealth.com/what-is-an-esthetician-15764 
6 Very Well Health.  Esthetician:  What They Do, How to Become One, and Salaries.  Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
https://www.verywellhealth.com/what-is-an-esthetician-15764 
