 
 
8 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Colorado started regulating barbers in 1909, when the General Assembly created the 
Barber Board.  In 1931, the General Assembly created the Cosmetology Board to 
regulate cosmetologists.  Manicurists were regulated under the Cosmetology Board 
beginning in 1963. 
 
In 1977, the General Assembly combined the two boards into a single State Board of 
Barbers and Cosmetologists (Board) and placed cosmeticians (now called estheticians) 
under the Board’s regulatory authority.  The new legislation also granted the Board the 
authority to establish minimum entry requirements for the occupations it oversaw.  
 
In 1990, the General Assembly passed House Bill 90-1009, which granted the Board the 
power to issue letters of admonition and impose administrative fines.  The bill also 
added language that explicitly required owners of shops—including barbershops, salons, 
and other similar places of business—to register with the Board.  At the same time, the 
bill repealed the requirement that the Board conduct unannounced inspections of each 
registered shop at least once every three years, instituting instead a risk-based system, 
wherein the Board inspected only those businesses against which it had received a 
written complaint. 
 
In 2000, the General Assembly passed House Bill 00-1179, which dissolved the Board 
and converted the licensing program into a director-model program, where all the 
licensing, enforcement, and policymaking authority rested with the Director of what is 
now the Division of Professions and Occupations (Director and Division, respectively).  
The bill required the Director to appoint a five-member Barber and Cosmetology 
Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee) to assist the Director in fulfilling their 
responsibilities.  The bill also created a hairstylist license, which included in its scope 
of practice, the arranging and braiding of hair and the application of hair extensions. 
