 
 
9 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Following the 2004 sunset review of the Barber and Cosmetologist Act (Act), the General 
Assembly passed Senate Bill 05-146.  The bill renamed cosmeticians “estheticians”; 
expanded the scope of practice for manicurists to include the removal of hair on the 
leg up to the knee and on the arm up to the elbow; expanded the scope of hairstylists 
to include beard-trimming; and added language requiring the Advisory Committee to 
meet at least four times per year.  The bill also changed how the length of education 
programs was calculated: previously, the minimum program length for each profession 
was articulated in clock hours.  Senate Bill 146 converted the clock hours to credit 
hours.  The bill also established a pathway to licensure by endorsement and repealed 
the section of the statute that explicitly required shops to register with the Director. 
 
In 2006, the General Assembly granted the Director the authority to issue confidential 
letters of concern to licensees whose conduct does not warrant formal disciplinary 
action but might lead to serious consequences if not corrected. 
 
In 2014, COPRRR conducted a sunset review of the Act.  There were several 
recommendations included in the report, which were enacted by the General Assembly 
in the 2015 legislative session.  Some recommendations enacted by the General 
Assembly included:   
 
• Establishing as grounds for discipline failure to respond to a complaint, 
• Clarifying that places of business must register with the Director and that the 
Director may take disciplinary action against registrants, and 
• Reducing the number of times that the Advisory Committee must meet from 
four times a year to at least once a year.   
 
 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth, fifth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent;  
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
