 
 
17 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth, sixth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency's board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The Barber and Cosmetologist (Act) is created in section 12-105-101, et seq., C.R.S.  
The purpose of the Act is to provide regulatory oversight of barbers, cosmetologists, 
estheticians, hairstylists, nail technicians and places of business. 
 
The regulation of barbers, cosmetologists, estheticians, hairstylists, nail technicians 
and places of business is vested in the Director of the Division of Professions and 
Occupations (Director and Division, respectively) within the Department of Regulatory 
Agencies.  The Director is responsible for, among other things, rulemaking, 
policymaking and, when necessary, imposing formal discipline on practitioners. 
 
Also, the Barber and Cosmetology Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee) was 
created within the Act to assist the Director in the performance of their duties.   
  
The Advisory Committee consists of six members appointed by the Director:58 
• Three members who are licensed under the Act, 
• One owner or operator of a school that provides training for licensees in the 
industry and is licensed by the Division of Private Occupational Schools, 
• One representative from a licensed school that provides training for licensees, 
and  
• One member of the public.   
 
58 § 12-105-106(2), C.R.S. 
