 
 
21 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
The increase in original and renewal licensing fees in fiscal year 23-24 from the previous 
fiscal year is attributable to higher overall program costs.  Notably, the original license 
fee for barbers was the only profession that did not receive an increase in original 
licensing fee in fiscal year 23-24.    
 
 
Licensing 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
There are two primary avenues for candidates to obtain a barber, cosmetologist, 
esthetician, hairstylist, or manicurist license in Colorado: examination and 
endorsement.   
 
Examination applicants must apply directly to the examination vendor—currently PSI—
to sit for the written (theory) and the practical examinations.  Once an applicant has 
passed both examinations, a license is issued. 
 
Endorsement applicants must complete an application and submit it with all supporting 
documentation to the Division, which includes submitting verification that the applicant 
possesses an active/valid license and is in good standing at the time of application.  
Applicants for licensure by endorsement must also attest to the following:60  
 
• Graduation from a school approved by the appropriate governmental agency 
responsible for approving such schools in a state or United States territory; 
• Successful completion of training hours that are substantially equivalent to the 
training hours required by Colorado; 
• Passage of a written examination administered or accepted by the appropriate 
licensing agency for a state or United States territory; 
• Passage of a practical examination administered or accepted by the appropriate 
licensing agency in a state or United States territory or at least 1,000 hours of 
work experience for the type of license being sought within two years preceding 
the licensing application; or 
o Submit verification of having held a valid license for at least one year in 
another jurisdiction and the scope of practice is substantially similar to 
the scope of practice in the Act. 
 
The applicant is also required to disclose any disciplinary actions taken against them. 
 
 
60 4 C.C.R. § 731-1.4 C 3, Barber and Cosmetology Licensure Rules and Regulations 
