 
 
35 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Barber and Cosmetologist Act for 11 years, 
until 2037. 
 
Article 105 of Title 12, Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), vests the Director of the 
Division of Professions and Occupations (Director) within the Department of Regulatory 
Agencies (DORA) with the power to regulate barbers, cosmetologists, estheticians, 
hairstylists, nail technicians and owners of their places of business. The statute 
authorizes the Director to promulgate rules, investigate complaints, and discipline 
licensees and registered businesses that violate the Barber and Cosmetologist Act (Act) 
and applicable rules.  The Director appoints the six-member Barber and Cosmetology 
Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee) to assist in the performance of the Director’s 
duties.  
 
The purpose of the Act is not to discern whether a haircut or a manicure is attractive.  
Consumers are best equipped to determine whether a service meets their expectations, 
and if it does not, to seek services from another licensee or in a different business. It 
is in the economic interest of licensees and registrants to provide the highest quality, 
most up-to-date services and products available.  Rather, the Act was created to 
protect the public health, safety, and welfare.  
 
The practice of all the professions regulated under the Act involve, to varying degrees, 
the use of sharp implements, such as shears, razors, and nippers, and harsh chemicals, 
such as those in dyes, relaxers, and exfoliants.  An incompetent barber could cut a 
client when improperly using a straight razor; an incompetent cosmetologist could burn 
a client’s scalp by leaving a chemical treatment in place for too long.  The number of 
complaints filed with the Director in fiscal years 19-20 through 23-24 indicate such 
incidents do, in fact, occur.  
 
While professional grade implements and chemicals are readily available to the public, 
there is an important difference between purchasing these items for personal use and 
using them on members of the public.  Consumers who purchase these products for 
their own use assume the responsibility of using them correctly.  Regulated 
professionals use the products on consumers and assume that responsibility.   
 
Another risk that the professions regulated under the Act pose to the public is in the 
transmission of communicable diseases and bacterial infections.  The practice of all of 
the professions regulated under the Act involve extensive person-to–person contact.  
Common infections such as norovirus and influenza are easily transmitted by unwashed 
