 
 
36 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
hands.  Infections such as methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (commonly called 
MRSA) can be transmitted via improperly disinfected implements or surfaces.  In fact, 
the only other DORA-regulated professions with a similar degree of contact are in health 
care, where the necessity for following proper cleaning and disinfection protocols is 
unquestioned.  
 
Some argue that if barbering, cosmetology, and related industries were unregulated, 
market competition would compel the individuals and businesses providing such 
services to maintain cleaning and disinfection standards.  Individuals and shops with 
poor standards would lose clients and be driven from the marketplace, while shops with 
high standards would grow and prosper.  
 
This argument assumes that consumers possess the expertise to evaluate cleaning and 
disinfection practices.  However, while some violations—such as electric clippers 
clogged with hair and visibly dirty pedicure footbaths—are readily apparent, others are 
not.  There is no way to determine by looking at a footbath or a pair of shears whether 
they have been properly disinfected.  Visibly clean implements or footbaths may still 
harbor harmful bacteria or pathogens.   
 
When members of the public lack the expertise or resources to recognize a threat, it is 
appropriate for a regulatory body to act on the public’s behalf. By requiring prospective 
licensees to undergo training addressing specific areas and pass written and practical 
examinations, the Director ensures that entry-level licensees have the skills to practice 
safely.  By fielding complaints against licensees and registrants and inspecting 
barbershops and salons, they are assuring that basic cleaning and disinfection standards 
are met.   These actions benefit the public.  As such, regulation of the industry is 
justified. 
 
This is a director model program, meaning that the regulatory authority resides with 
the Director rather than an independent board.  The Director regulates more than 
71,000 individuals and businesses under the Act.  Despite this large number, the 
majority of complaints filed do not allege public harm; rather, they relate to unlicensed 
practice. Such complaints do not require the professional expertise of a licensing board 
to resolve.  However, regulatory oversight is necessary to ensure unlicensed—and thus 
untrained—professionals are not practicing in Colorado.   
 
As such, the director model remains an efficient and effective regulatory structure for 
these professions.   
 
It is worth noting that concurrently with this sunset review, the Division of Professions 
and Occupations also underwent a sunset review.  Recommendations in the sunset 
report of the Division will likely impact the Barber and Cosmetologist program, as those 
recommendations will have Division-wide impact.  Such recommendations were made 
in the sunset report of the Division, as opposed to individual programmatic reports, to 
ensure consistency and cohesion in policy implementation across the Division. 
 
