 
 
37 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public.  By 
requiring licensees to meet minimal requirements before providing services to the 
public, investigating complaints, inspecting businesses, setting standards for cleaning 
and disinfection, and educating licensees and registrants about such standards, the Act, 
as administered by the Director, protects the health and safety of the public.   
Therefore, the General Assembly should continue the Act for 11 years, until 2037.   
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Sunset the Advisory Committee.  
 
The Advisory Committee was created to assist the Director in addressing regulatory 
issues such as policy issues and changes, and additions or amendments to the Barber 
and Cosmetology rules.  The Advisory Committee must include three members who hold 
a license under the Act, one owner or operator of a Colorado school that prepares 
students for licensure under the Act and is licensed by the Division of Private 
Occupational Schools, a representative from a licensed school that provides training for 
licensees and a member of the public. The Advisory Committee must meet at least once 
a year, before rules are adopted, and at any other time the Director requests.   
 
The Advisory Committee met once in 2022 (November 17, 2022), once in 2023 (April 23, 
2023), zero times in 2024 and once in 2025.  Since the Advisory Committee meets 
sparingly and the Director has not requested any additional convenings of the Advisory 
Committee in the past several years, the Advisory Committee is no longer necessary 
and should be repealed.   
 
Importantly, the elimination of the Advisory Committee will not compromise the 
Director’s ability to utilize expert advice.  The Director can still convene ad hoc 
committees representing industry experts, for example, to address any regulatory 
issues that arise.   
 
Also, repealing the Advisory Committee from the Act will not limit members of the 
profession or other stakeholders from engaging in the policy or rulemaking process. In 
fact, the State Administrative Procedure Act requires stakeholder input during the 
rulemaking process. 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
from harm.  Since the Advisory Committee does not meet regularly to address 
regulatory issues, it is not serving as a mechanism to protect the public. Therefore, the 
General Assembly should sunset the Advisory Committee.   
   
 
 
 
 
 
