 
 
38 | P a g e 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Update the definitions for certain license types in the 
Act. 
 
Currently, the definition of barbering in section 12-105-104(2), C.R.S., includes 
references to “hair dying,” which is outdated language.  Instead, the reference to hair 
dying should be replaced with “hair lightening and coloring.”  The definition of 
barbering also contains language concerning “giving a facial and scalp message.”  This 
language should be replaced with “scalp treatments.”   
 
Additionally, the definition of cosmetology in the Act includes references to 
“bleaching,” and should be replaced with “lightening.”  The definition of cosmetology 
should include language to authorize cosmetologists to “trim the beard” because 
trimming a beard is within the scope of practice for cosmetologists.   
 
The definition of hairstyling, in section 12-105-104(9)(c), C.R.S., should remove the 
reference to “applying hair extensions” because this service is encompassed in natural 
hair braiding, which is exempt from the Act.   
 
The definition of estheticians in section 12-105-104(8), C.R.S., should be updated to 
include language that authorizes estheticians to provide hair removal services anywhere 
on the body as well as the ability to provide body wraps for consumers.   
 
The fourteenth sunset criterion asks whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest.  Updating the 
definitions highlighted above will serve to provide clarity to certain professions related 
to their specific duties when performing services for consumers. 
 
As such, the General Assembly should update various definitions in the Act, which will 
provide up-to-date language that is utilized in the industry as well as provide clarity as 
to permissible services that certain professions may provide to consumers.  
 
   
Recommendation 4 — Clarify the language regarding exemptions from the Act.  
 
Section 12-105-118, C.R.S., establishes who is exempted from the Act.  Currently, the 
Act highlights several exemptions, such as licensed or unlicensed volunteers who 
perform charitable services of washing and setting hair to patients who are confined in 
hospitals, nursing, convalescent or boarding homes.   
 
There are several services provided that should be clarified that are exempt from the 
Act, including: 
 
• Funeral service providers who provide services on deceased persons; 
• Tattoo artists who perform tattooing on the face to look like make-up (such as 
eyebrows); 
• Electrologists; 
