 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
The Colorado Licensing of Controlled Substances Act 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
The Colorado Licensing of Controlled Substances 
Act (Act) establishes a framework to license 
facilities that treat substance use disorders with 
controlled substances.  
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
The purpose of the Act is to prevent misuse and 
diversion of controlled substances and to align with 
regulations established by the federal Substance 
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, 
in the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services, which establishes national standards for 
facilities that treat substance use disorders with 
controlled substances and coordinates with states 
and the Drug Enforcement Administration to 
regulate them.  
 
Who is regulated? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Behavioral Health 
Administration (BHA) licensed, under the Act, a 
total of 109 controlled substance treatment 
facilities. 
 
How is it regulated? 
 
The BHA, located in the Department of Human 
Services, is responsible for licensing, inspecting and 
investigating facilities under the authority of the 
Act and enforcing the Act. 
 
What does it cost? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, 4.55 full-time equivalent 
employees were allocated to the program, and the 
total program expenditure was estimated to be 
about $670,000.  
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
Over a five-year period, BHA revoked 1 license, 
denied 1 license and took 10 other disciplinary 
actions, including probation or practice limitation. 
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue the Colorado Licensing of 
Controlled Substances Act for 15 
years, until 2041. 
 
• Modernize the definition of 
“substance use disorder” in the 
Act to more accurately reflect the 
type of conditions being treated by 
BHA-licensed facilities. 
 
• Create a new definition of 
“withdrawal management” that 
considers the full spectrum of 
treatment concepts. 
 
• Repeal the definitions of 
“detoxification treatment,” 
“maintenance treatment” and 
“withdrawal treatment” in the Act, 
and replace them with the term, 
"withdrawal management.” 
 
