 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of Substance Use Disorder Treatment  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to understand substance use 
disorders and the use of controlled substances to treat these disorders. 
 
In 1784, Benjamin Rush, a founding father and physician who advocated for the humane 
treatment of people with mental disorders,2 argued that addiction, now referred to as 
substance use disorder, was a disease that should be treated.3  
 
Today, a substance use disorder is understood to be a complex disease in which the 
brain is altered so that it becomes especially difficult to stop using alcohol and other 
drugs despite a patient’s motivation to do so. As a substance use disorder is a chronic 
disease, even after long periods of sobriety, a patient may relapse. While it cannot be 
cured, substance use disorder can be managed.4 
 
A substance use disorder may be defined as the use of alcohol or other substances that 
negatively affect an individual’s health or causes problems at home, school or in the 
workplace.5 Some substances that may lead to dependence include:6 
 
• Opiates and other narcotics, such as heroin, fentanyl and prescription pain 
medication; 
• Stimulants, such as cocaine and amphetamines; and 
• Depressants, such as alcohol, barbiturates and benzodiazepine. 
 
Treatment by qualified professionals may address the disorder by slowly weaning the 
individual off the substance or ending the use of the substance all at once. Additionally, 
treatment involves monitoring and addressing any physical and emotional withdrawal 
symptoms, teaching individuals in recovery to understand their behavior and providing 
them with techniques to prevent relapse.7 
 
 
2 Encyclopaedia Britannica. Benjamin Rush. Retrieved September 24, 2025, from 
www.britannica.com/biography/Benjamin-Rush 
3 Recovery. Timeline: History of Addiction Treatment. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from recovery.org/drug-
treatment/history/ 
4 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. What Is Substance Use Disorder? Retrieved 
September 26, 2025, from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/what-is-sud 
5 MedlinePlus. Substance Use Disorder. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001522.htm 
6 MedlinePlus. Substance Use Disorder. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001522.htm 
7 MedlinePlus. Substance Use Disorder. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001522.htm 
