 
 
8 | P a g e 
Methadone is a Schedule II controlled substance, which means it has a high potential 
for misuse and may cause psychological or physical dependence. Buprenorphine is a 
Schedule III controlled substance, which means it has potential for misuse and may 
cause low to moderate physical dependence and high psychological dependence.17  
 
Methadone is approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat opioid use 
disorder. As long as it is taken as prescribed, methadone is a safe and effective 
medication. Along with a comprehensive treatment plan, it can support patients who 
are in recovery.18 
 
Like methadone, when taken as prescribed, buprenorphine is a safe and effective 
medication used to treat opioid use disorder. It can reduce withdrawal symptoms and 
cravings associated with opioid dependence. Buprenorphine is not as strong as 
methadone, and it is less likely to be misused.19 Unfortunately, not all individuals with 
an opioid use disorder can benefit from buprenorphine. 
 
The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) is a federal 
agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Among its 
responsibilities, SAMHSA coordinates with states and other federal agencies to regulate 
treatment facilities that administer and dispense medications to treat opioid use 
disorder, and it also provides funding to community-based mental health and substance 
use disorder treatment and prevention services.20 
 
Under federal law, methadone can only be administered and dispensed by an opioid 
treatment program that is:21 
 
• Accredited by a SAMHSA-approved accrediting body, 
• Certified by SAMHSA,  
• Licensed in the state where it operates, and 
• Registered with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). 
 
Additionally, federal regulations require methadone to be dispensed to patients under 
the supervision of a practitioner. Once the attending practitioner and treatment team 
determines that it is safe and best for the patient, they may be allowed to take 
medication at home, without direct supervision, in between visits to the opioid 
treatment program. Federal regulations also require opioid treatment programs to 
 
17 Drug Enforcement Administration. Control Substance Schedules. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/schedules/schedules.html 
18 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Methadone. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/options/methadone 
19 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Buprenorphine. Retrieved September 26, 2025, 
from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/options/buprenorphine 
20 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA): Overview of the Agency and Major 
Programs, Congressional Research Service (2020), Summary.  
21 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Become an Opioid Treatment Program (OTP). 
Retrieved September 26, 2025, from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/opioid-treatment-
program/become-otp 
