 
 
9 | P a g e 
provide patients receiving methadone with counseling along with medical, vocational 
and other services.22 
 
Similar to methadone, opioid treatment programs may only dispense buprenorphine if 
they are certified with SAMHSA and registered with the DEA. Federal regulations also 
require opioid treatment programs to provide patients receiving buprenorphine with 
specific services, such as medical services, counseling and drug testing.23 To increase 
access to medications for the treatment of opioid use disorder, buprenorphine is 
authorized to be prescribed and dispensed from a physician’s office.24 
 
SAMHSA distributes a block grant for substance use disorder prevention and treatment 
services. Each state must designate a “Single State Agency” to administer the grant.25 
In Colorado, the Behavioral Health Administration (BHA) in the Department of Human 
Services is the designated Single State Agency. 
 
Additionally, in most states, a State Opioid Treatment Authority (SOTA) acts as the 
point of contact between the state and SAMHSA, and the SOTA is also responsible for 
overseeing opioid treatment programs. In Colorado, the Associate Director of Controlled 
Substance Licensing in BHA acts as the SOTA and is responsible for licensing facilities 
under the authority of the Colorado Licensing of Controlled Substances Act. 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition.  
 
Historically, SAMHSA has awarded millions of dollars in federal funding to support 
substance use prevention and treatment initiatives in Colorado. In 2021, SAMHSA 
awarded $27.1 million for the Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment block grant 
to be spent by March 14, 2023, and an additional $23.4 million to be spent by September 
30, 2025.26  
 
 
22 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Methadone. Retrieved September 26, 2025, from 
www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/options/methadone 
23 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Buprenorphine Dispensing by Opioid Treatment 
Programs (OTPs). Retrieved September 26, 2025, from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/opioid-
treatment-program/become-otp/buprenorphine-dispensing 
24 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Buprenorphine. Retrieved September 26, 2025, 
from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/options/buprenorphine 
25 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA): Overview of the Agency and Major 
Programs, Congressional Research Service (2020), Summary.  
26 Colorado Department of Human Services. Press Release: Colorado receives $94 million federal funding boost for 
behavioral health services. Retrieved on September 26, 2025, from cdhs.colorado.gov/press-release/colorado-
receives-94-million-federal-funding-boost-for-behavioral-health-services 
