 
 
10 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Colorado first enacted laws regarding controlled substances in 1963, in the form of the 
State Narcotic Act. Then, in 1968, Colorado enacted the Colorado Dangerous Drug Act. 
In 1981, the General Assembly combined these two laws into the Colorado Licensing of 
Controlled Substances Act (Act).  
 
The Act originally addressed licensure requirements for a wide range of professionals, 
including researchers, analytical laboratories, addiction programs, humane societies 
that euthanize animals, wholesalers that distribute controlled substances and 
manufacturers that manufacture or distribute controlled substances. The Act included 
disciplinary actions in the form of denial, revocation or suspension of a license; listing 
of unlawful acts; definitions and penalties for procurement of controlled substances by 
fraud and deceit; and an inventory of Schedule I to V controlled substances. 
 
Recordkeeping requirements for licensees were delineated, along with authorization 
for inspections, investigations and reporting requirements. 
 
In 1984, responsibility for controlled substance licensing of addiction programs, 
researchers, and analytical laboratories was placed in the Colorado Department of 
Human Services (Human Services) in what was then the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division. 
 
During the 2012 legislative session, following a sunset review of the State Board of 
Pharmacy, Senate Bill 1311 relocated the Act from the Pharmacy Practice Act where it 
had been since 1981. It was moved to the statutes administered by Human Services and 
behavioral health since the Act was implemented by Human Services and not the 
Pharmacy Board. 
 
