 
 
17 | P a g e 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth and sixth sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The Behavioral Health Administration (BHA), in the Department of Human Services, is 
vested with the regulation of substance use disorder treatment programs (treatment 
programs) under the Colorado Licensing of Controlled Substances Act (Act). Specifically, 
BHA is responsible for issuing licenses, investigating complaints, conducting inspections, 
adopting rules and enforcing the Act.  
 
The licensing program in BHA operates in conjunction and in accordance with guidelines 
established by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
(SAMHSA) in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
 
The purpose of the Act is to provide a regulatory framework that helps to prevent 
misuse and diversion of controlled substances, such as methadone and buprenorphine, 
which are used to treat substance use disorders. Federal law requires treatment 
programs that administer and dispense these substances to obtain a license from the 
state where they are operating.  
 
In addition to a state license, state and federal law also require opioid treatment 
programs to be:  
 
• Registered with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), 
• Certified by SAMHSA, 
• Accredited by an accrediting body approved by SAMHSA, and  
• Compliant with federal and state regulations.  
 
The program is partially cash funded by license fees. However, as the license fees do 
not support all program activities, the remaining operating expenses are covered by 
grants and General Fund dollars. 
