 
 
19 | P a g e 
• Division Director of Quality & Standards (Program Management II, 0.5 FTE) — 
Leads the Quality and Standards Division, oversees regulatory development and 
implementation and is a member of BHA core leadership team. 
 
• Data Systems Director (Program Management II, 0.05 FTE) — Leads a team and 
makes decisions to ensure all data systems are properly designed, built and 
prioritized to meet the goals of BHA. 
 
• Data System Specialist (Data Management III, 0.1 FTE) — Acts as product and 
licensing lead and provides vendor escalation support. 
 
• System Specialist (Data Management III, 0.1 FTE) — Acts as a provider support 
lead, responds to Central Registry user questions and requests, creates and 
deactivates Central Registry accounts and provides escalation support. 
 
• Contract Digital Advisor (BHA Contractor, 0.1 FTE) — Supports sprint planning 
and enhancements for the Central Registry; informs and drives strategy for 
products across BHA technology and data tools. 
 
• Electronic Platform Contractor (BHA Contractor, 0.1 FTE) — Supports BHA’s 
technological needs for the Central Registry. 
 
 
Licensing 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
A controlled substance license is required for all treatment programs that administer, 
dispense or compound a controlled substance to treat a substance use disorder.69 
However, office-based treatment providers are not required to obtain controlled 
substance licenses as long as they do not administer, dispense or compound a controlled 
substance to treat substance use disorders.70 
 
A separate license is required for each facility site that is engaged in activities requiring 
a license.71 
 
 
69 2 CCR 502-1 § 13.3(A), Behavioral Health Rules. 
70 2 CCR 502-1 § 13.3(B), Behavioral Health Rules. 
71 2 CCR 502-1 § 13.3.1(C), Behavioral Health Rules. 
