 
 
26 | P a g e 
encounters following a significant increase in the treatment population, along with 
regulatory changes that allow prescribers to dispense more take-home methadone to 
patients, and in doing so alleviating the need for daily visits to methadone clinics. 
Previously, take-home methadone allowances were considerably more fixed and limited 
across the patient population. With changes to state and federal opioid treatment 
program regulations, prescribers may be more flexible and individualized in their 
approach to dispensing methadone. However, as dispensing is now more complicated, 
the opportunity for medication errors has also increased.  
 
A medication error may also take place when a nurse dispenses the wrong amount of 
medication. For instance, the doctor’s order may be for 27 milligrams, but a nurse may 
dispense 270 milligrams instead. An error may also occur when a nurse dispenses 
medication from the previous doctor’s order rather than the new doctor's order. 
 
An elopement refers to a patient who is subject to involuntary treatment, and they 
have left a treatment facility without permission. It is unclear whether all the 
elopements reported here are relevant to controlled substance licenses. The data was 
gathered by collecting all the elopements from facilities that have controlled substance 
licenses. However, many of these facilities, such as Denver Health, provide a variety of 
health-care services in addition to administering and dispensing medication for 
substance use disorders. Methadone clinics, which represent approximately half of all 
controlled substance licenses, are outpatient clinics rather than secure facilities, so an 
elopement would not be relevant to this type of licensee. 
 
Similarly, the data related to breaches of confidentiality may be skewed since some of 
these breaches may have been reported by facilities that provide methadone care along 
with other types of health-care services.  
 
Table 7 demonstrates that total number of reported deaths increased significantly each 
year between fiscal year 21-22 and 23-24. In addition to the significant increase in the 
patient population, BHA now requires licensees to endeavor to determine what 
happened to an individual when they stop showing up for treatment, such as calling law 
enforcement and the medical examiner’s office. Previously, licensees may have simply 
discharged a patient when they stopped showing up for treatment rather than 
attempting to determine why the individual ceased treatment. As a result, deaths may 
have previously been underreported. 
 
BHA and the treatment facilities do not always know the cause of death of a patient. 
The licensee may be informed by a family member that a patient has died, but the 
family does not always know the cause of death. BHA asks for the medical examiner’s 
report and investigates each death to determine whether treatment was a contributing 
factor. 
 
It should be noted that overdoses related to methadone remain low since patients are 
less likely to die from an opioid overdose while they are in treatment.  
 
