 
 
29 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Colorado Licensing of Controlled 
Substances Act for 15 years, until 2041. 
 
The Colorado Licensing of Controlled Substances Act (Act) is located in Part 2 of Article 
80 of Title 27 of the Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). 
 
The Behavioral Health Administration (BHA), in the Department of Human Services, is 
vested with the regulation of substance use disorder treatment facilities under the Act. 
Specifically, BHA is responsible for issuing licenses, investigating complaints, 
conducting inspections, adopting rules and enforcing the Act.  
 
The licensing program in BHA operates in conjunction and in accordance with guidelines 
established by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
(SAMHSA) in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. 
 
Sunset reviews are guided by statutory criteria found in section 24-34-104, C.R.S., and 
the first criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the health, safety and 
welfare of the public.   
 
The Act protects the public by establishing a framework to regulate facilities that treat 
substance use disorders with Schedule II and III controlled substances, such as 
methadone and buprenorphine. The primary purpose of the Act is to prevent misuse 
and diversion of controlled substances. It also serves to protect the patients that are 
being treated in these facilities. 
 
Substance use disorder is a complex disease in which the brain is altered so that it 
becomes especially difficult to stop using alcohol or other drugs despite a patient’s 
motivation to do so. As substance use disorder is a chronic disease, even after long 
periods of sobriety, a patient may relapse. While it cannot be cured, substance use 
disorder can be managed.79 
 
Treatment by qualified professionals may address the disorder by slowly weaning the 
individual off the substance or ending the use of the substance all at once. Treatment 
also involves monitoring and addressing any physical and emotional withdrawal 
symptoms, teaching individuals in recovery to understand their behavior and providing 
 
79 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. What Is Substance Use Disorder? Retrieved 
September 26, 2025, from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/what-is-sud 
