 
 
31 | P a g e 
BHA plays an important role in Colorado residents having access to safe and effective 
treatment for substance use disorders, which can help mitigate the harm from opioids 
and other harmful drugs, and the Act provides an important framework to prevent the 
drugs used to treat opioid use disorder from finding their way to the streets and being 
misused by patients in treatment. 
 
Over a five-year period, BHA revoked one license, denied one license and took 10 other 
disciplinary actions, including probation or practice limitations, against facilities that 
were not substantially compliant with state and federal regulations. 
 
As demonstrated in Table 10, deaths from opioids decreased in 2024. In part, this may 
be due to reductions in barriers to treatment for opioid use disorder. Also, over the 
past few years, the patient population receiving treatment with methadone has 
increased substantially. 
 
Clearly, regulation of facilities that administer and dispense controlled substances to 
treat substance use disorders is critical to protect the public health, safety and welfare. 
It is also required by federal law. Without the Act, no facilities in Colorado would be 
allowed to treat opioid use disorders with controlled substances. 
 
For those with substance use disorders, medication has been demonstrated to:82 
 
• Save lives,  
• Improve treatment retention, 
• Improve recovery rates,  
• Reduce rates of illegal drug use and other illegal activity,  
• Improve employment rates, and  
• Improve birth outcomes. 
 
As the most effective medications for the treatment of opioid use disorder are 
methadone and buprenorphine, which are Schedule II and Schedule III controlled 
substances, maintaining these treatment facilities in Colorado is critical. Therefore, 
the Act should be continued. 
 
The licensing program is largely driven by federal regulations, and during the sunset 
review, the issues that were raised were largely related to modernizing the Act. 
Considering this, a 15-year continuation is reasonable.  
 
As the Act is critical for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, the 
General Assembly should continue the Act for 15 years, until 2041. 
 
 
 
82 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Substance Use Disorder Treatment Options. 
Retrieved September 24, 2025, from www.samhsa.gov/substance-use/treatment/options 
