 
 
32 | P a g e 
Recommendation 2 — Modernize the definition of “substance use disorder” 
in the Act to more accurately reflect the type of conditions being treated by 
BHA-licensed facilities and the practitioners who may diagnose these 
conditions. 
 
Currently, the Act defines “substance use disorder” as 
 
a physical or psychological dependence on a controlled substance that 
develops following the use of the controlled substance on a periodic or 
continuing basis and is demonstrated by appropriate observation and tests 
by a person licensed to practice medicine pursuant to Article 240 of Title 
12. 
 
This definition is outdated and may not reflect the types of substance use disorders 
that may be treated by facilities licensed under the Act. For instance, the definition 
limits substance use disorder to conditions related to controlled substances. While many 
of the patients being treated in these facilities have substance use disorders related to 
controlled substances, it is not necessary to limit treatment to those patients. The 
controlled substance license is required because a facility treats a substance use 
disorder with a controlled substance, not because the condition being treated relates 
to a controlled substance. 
 
Additionally, the definition limits diagnosis to a physician. However, multiple types of 
practitioners, practicing within their scopes of practice, are qualified to diagnose 
substance use disorders.  
 
Sunset criteria question: 
 
• Whether conditions have changed and whether other conditions have 
arisen that would warrant more, less, or the same degree of governmental 
oversight; 
• Whether the existing rules and regulations establish the least restrictive 
form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest, 
considering other available regulatory mechanisms; and 
• Whether the scope of practice of the regulated occupation contributes to 
the optimum use of personnel. 
 
To modernize the Act, the definition should be revised to more accurately reflect the 
conditions being treated and types of practitioners whose various scopes of practice 
include diagnosis of these conditions. This would also help to eliminate an unnecessary 
barrier to health care.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should modernize the definition of “substance use 
disorder” in the Act to more accurately reflect the type of conditions being treated by 
licensed facilities and the practitioners who may diagnose these conditions, such as: 
 
