 
 
33 | P a g e 
a chronic relapsing brain disease, which is diagnosed by a licensed 
practitioner qualified to diagnose substance use disorders, characterized 
by recurrent use of alcohol, drugs or both, causing clinically significant 
impairment, including health problems, disability and failure to meet 
major responsibilities at work, school or home. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Repeal the definitions of and references to 
“detoxification treatment,” “maintenance treatment” and “withdrawal 
treatment” in the Act, replace them with the term, "withdrawal 
management,” and adopt a new definition of “withdrawal management” that 
considers the full spectrum of treatment concepts. 
 
Currently, the Act includes three definitions for “detoxification treatment,” 
“withdrawal treatment” and “maintenance treatment.”  
 
BHA has already eliminated these terms in its rules. Instead, BHA rules refer to different 
levels of “withdrawal management.” This is consistent with the latest standards 
adopted by the American Society of Addiction Medication (ASAM).  
 
These terms may be considered by some as outdated. For instance, “detox” or 
“detoxification treatment” is viewed by some as pejorative and outdated in the field 
of addiction medicine, and ASAM has eliminated this term from its current standards. 
 
Sunset criteria question whether conditions that led to the creation of the program 
have changed and whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operations are impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures or 
practices. 
 
In order to modernize the Act, these terms should be repealed and the term, 
“withdrawal management,” which considers the full spectrum of treatment concepts 
and aligns with current national standards, should replace them.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should repeal the definitions of and references to 
“detoxification treatment,” “withdrawal treatment” and “maintenance treatment,” 
and replace them with the term, “withdrawal management,” which may be defined as 
 
a program of treatment that is designed to support the medical and 
psychiatric stability of a person with a substance use disorder by 
mitigating physiological signs and symptoms of their substance 
withdrawal, with the option of administering or dispensing a controlled 
substance in the course of treatment, approved for such use by federal 
law or regulation. The course of treatment can range from short-term 
intoxication management with the goal of reducing more immediately a 
person’s dependence on all substances to long-term medication 
