 
 
 
3 | P a g e 
 
Background 
 
Sunset Criteria 
 
Enacted in 1976, Colorado’s sunset law was the first of its kind in the United States. A 
sunset provision repeals all or part of a law after a specific date, unless the legislature 
affirmatively acts to extend it. During the sunset review process, the Colorado Office 
of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) within the Department of 
Regulatory Agencies (DORA) conducts a thorough evaluation of such programs based 
upon specific statutory criteria1 and solicits diverse input from a broad spectrum of 
stakeholders including consumers, government agencies, public advocacy groups, and 
professional associations. 
 
Sunset reviews are guided by statutory criteria and sunset reports are organized so that 
a reader may consider these criteria while reading. While not all criteria are applicable 
to all sunset reviews, the various sections of a sunset report generally call attention to 
the relevant criteria. For example, 
 
● In order to address the first criterion and determine whether the program under 
review is necessary to protect the public, it is necessary to understand the 
details of the profession or industry at issue. The Profile section of a sunset 
report typically describes the profession or industry at issue and addresses the 
current environment, which may include economic data, to aid in this analysis. 
● To address the second sunset criterion--whether conditions that led to the 
initial creation of the program have changed--the History of Regulation section 
of a sunset report explores any relevant changes that have occurred over time 
in the regulatory environment. The remainder of the Legal Framework section 
addresses the fifth sunset criterion by summarizing the organic statute and rules 
of the program, as well as relevant federal, state and local laws to aid in the 
exploration of whether the program’s operations are impeded or enhanced by 
existing statutes or rules. 
● The Program Description section of a sunset report addresses several of the 
sunset criteria, including those inquiring whether the agency operates in the 
public interest and whether its operations are impeded or enhanced by existing 
statutes, rules, procedures and practices; whether the agency or the agency’s 
board performs efficiently and effectively and whether the board, if applicable, 
represents the public interest. 
● The Analysis and Recommendations section of a sunset report, while generally 
applying multiple criteria, is specifically designed in response to the fourteenth 
criterion, which asks whether administrative or statutory changes are necessary 
to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
 
 
 
1 Criteria may be found at § 24-34-104, C.R.S. 
