 
 
 
8 | P a g e 
 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
The Federal Boating Act of 1958 required the secretary of the department in which the 
U.S. Coast Guard is housed to develop a system for numbering vessels using the 
navigable waterways of the United States and authorized the secretary to approve state 
numbering systems. 
 
The Federal Boat Safety Act of 1971 was enacted to encourage states to join in boating 
safety efforts and assume a larger role in boating safety education, assistance and 
enforcement activities.3  Although the Recreational Boating Safety (RBS) Grant Program 
created in that act expired in 1979, it was reestablished in the Recreational Boating 
Safety and Facilities Improvement Act of 1980.4 
 
The purpose of Colorado’s vessel registration program is to comply with the RBS Grant 
Program guidelines, which enables Colorado to receive federal funds under that 
program, and to promote the safety of people and property in connection with the use, 
operation and equipment of vessels.5 
 
Historically, a vessel was any type of watercraft used or capable of being used as a 
means of transportation of persons and property on the water, other than single-
chambered air-inflated devices or seaplanes. 
 
Unless specifically exempted, all vessels were required to be registered in Colorado. 
Examples of such exempted vessels included: 
 
3 U.S. Coast Guard.  State Grants: History. Retrieved September 11, 2025, from 
www.uscgboating.org/grants/state-grants-history.php 
4 U.S. Coast Guard.  State Grants: History. Retrieved September 11, 2025, from 
www.uscgboating.org/grants/state-grants-history.php 
5 § 33-13-101, C.R.S. 
