 
 
 
9 | P a g e 
 
● Canoes, 
● Kayaks, 
● Non-motorized or hand-propelled craft, and 
● Vessels registered in another jurisdiction. 
 
House Bill 88-1088 clarified that any vessel that is neither a motorboat nor a sailboat, 
including sailboards, is exempt from the registration requirement. 
Senate Bill 95-196 lowered the criminal penalty for failure to register a vessel from a 
Class 1 misdemeanor to a Class 2 petty offense. 
 
That same year, COPRRR conducted the first sunset review of the vessel registration 
program, recommending that the program be continued. 
 
The program’s organic statute was amended again in House Bill 96-1077, by clarifying 
that law enforcement personnel may seize a vessel if the officer has probable cause to 
believe that the vessel does not lawfully belong to the person in possession of it. 
 
In 2010, COPRRR conducted another sunset review, which recommended continuation 
of the program and discontinuance of further sunset reviews.  The General Assembly 
continued the program but did not enact the provision to remove it from the sunset 
schedule. 
 
In 2015, COPRRR conducted another sunset review, and again, recommended continuing 
the program indefinitely and removing it from the sunset schedule.  The General 
Assembly continued the program but did not enact the provision that recommended 
removing it from the sunset schedule.   
 
 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth and fifth sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent; and 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters. 
 
 
