 
 
 
16 | P a g e 
 
Registration  
 
The eleventh sunset criterion questions whether the scope of practice of the regulated 
occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
this criterion. 
 
Any boat with a motor or sail is required to obtain a registration from CPW, including 
jet skis, ski-doos and personal watercraft.  In order to secure a registration, an 
applicant is required to complete an application, obtain an aquatic nuisance species 
(ANS) stamp from CPW and pay the applicable fee.  An ANS is a plant or animal that 
harms lakes, reservoirs, rivers and streams.  ANS can also include non-native viruses 
and parasites that may cause disease in fish.34  Typically, registrations are processed 
by CPW staff within two to four weeks.   
 
Additionally, applicants for a registration are required to include one acceptable proof 
of ownership document such as:35 
 
● A bill of sale that includes both the seller and buyer’s printed names and 
signatures, the vessel’s identification number, make, model and year, as well as 
the date of sale; 
● A previous registration certificate issued by a governmental entity that lists the 
applicant as a registered owner; 
● A manufacturer’s certificate/ statement of origin; 
● A certificate of title; 
● Any court issued document proving ownership; or 
● A physical inspection form completed by a CPW agent.  
 
Once a registration application is processed by CPW staff, a registration number is 
assigned to the vessel.  The registration number must be painted or attached to each 
side of the bow on the vessel.   
 
The registration number is required to be displayed in the following manner:36 
 
● Read from left to right in block characters of a good proportion, 
● Be a minimum of three inches in height, 
● Be a color that contrasts with the color of the background, 
● All letters and numbers must be maintained in a manner so to be clearly visible 
and legible at all times, 
 
34 Colorado Parks and Wildlife.  Aquatic Nuisance Species.  Retrieved September 17, 2025, from 
https://cpw.state.co.us/aquatic-nuisance-species 
35 Colorado Parks and Wildlife.  Registration Application.  Retrieved September 9, 2025, from 
https://cpw.widen.net/s/tmsfcgnkqv/boatohvsnowmobileregistration 
36 Colorado Parks and Wildlife.  Register a Boat.  Retrieved September 9, 2025, from 
https://cpw.state.co.us/register-boat 
