 
 
 
21 | P a g e 
 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the vessel registration program indefinitely.  
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the health, 
welfare and safety of the public. 
 
Colorado’s vessel registration program (Program) is administered by the Division of 
Parks and Wildlife (CPW), which is housed in the Colorado Department of Natural 
Resources.  The funds raised through the Program, in turn, fund a variety of CPW 
activities, including boating safety inspections, boating safety educational courses and 
physical infrastructure such as boat ramps and affiliated parking lots at state parks. 
 
Boat ramps and parking lots contribute to state’s welfare by enabling Coloradans and 
tourists to utilize the bodies of water at which such facilities are located. 
 
Program registration fees also at least partially fund CPW’s boating safety activities.  
These activities include boating safety inspections and boating safety courses.  In 2024, 
there were 44 accidents on Colorado’s waters, resulting in 21 deaths, 18 non-fatal 
injuries, and 10 included property damage.38  Thus, recreational boating can be 
dangerous and efforts to reduce that danger clearly increase the public’s health and 
safety. 
 
Additionally, the Program ensures that the state continues to receive Federal 
Recreational Boating Safety (RBS) Grant Program dollars.  This is a federal matching 
program that brings in more than $1.1 million to the state each year.  In order to receive 
these grant funds, the state must maintain a vessel registration system that complies 
with federal requirements.  The Program satisfies this requirement. 
 
The Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform has conducted several 
sunset reviews of the Program, including in 1995, 2010 and 2015.  These sunset reviews 
did not recommend substantive changes to the Program.  Indeed, as long as RBS Grant 
Program dollars are tied to maintaining a compliant vessel registration program, it 
appears likely that such a program will continue.  In the event the federal program 
changes, CPW can seek legislation independent of a sunset review to ensure continued 
state compliance. 
 
 
38 2024 Recreational Boating Statistics, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Coast Guard, Office of 
Auxiliary and Boating Safety (2025), p. 58. 
