 
 
8 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
In 2007, the General Assembly passed House Bill 07-1272. Prior to this legislation, 
Colorado did not have a statutorily designated unit dedicated to cold case homicides. 
The bill created the Colorado Cold Case Unit (Unit) within the Colorado Bureau of 
Investigation (CBI). It also created the Cold Case Task Force (Task Force), which is the 
subject of this review. The Task Force was required to review homicide investigation 
strategies and make recommendations as to best practices for the Unit. The legislation 
also required the creation of a Cold Case Database. 
 
In 2011, the Task Force underwent its first sunset review. The Colorado Office of Policy, 
Research, and Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) recommended to continue the Task Force 
and amend the membership of the Task Force to include a forensic pathologist. A 
forensic pathologist is a medical professional that specializes in determining the cause 
and manner of death during postmortem examinations.21 Both recommendations were 
accepted by the General Assembly.  
 
The next sunset review took place in 2018. It again recommended continuation of the 
Task Force, which was adopted by the General Assembly. 
 
In 2022, the General Assembly passed Senate Bill 013, which repealed language setting 
specific expiration dates for board members' terms and replaced them with a general 
requirement that terms be staggered. This provision staggered the terms for members 
of the Task Force so that a large number of terms will not expire simultaneously. 
 
 
 
 
21 College of American Pathologists. What You Need to Know About Forensic Pathology. Retrieved September 2, 
2025, from https://www.cap.org/member-resources/articles/what-you-need-to-know-about-forensic-pathology 
