 
 
14 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Cold Case Task Force for 13 years, until 
2039, and schedule it for a sunset review under Title 2, Colorado Revised 
Statutes. 
 
Cold cases refer to open homicide investigations that have been active for more than 
three years from the date of the commission of the crime.45 This applies to active cases 
since 1970.46 While the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has a Cold Case Unit 
(Unit) dedicated to tackling these crimes, it relies substantively on the advice of the 
Cold Case Task Force (Task Force), the subject of this sunset review. 
 
Both the Unit and Task Force were created in 2007. Prior to this, there was no formal, 
statewide guidance on how to handle such cases. Currently, the Task Force serves in an 
advisory capacity to assist the Unit and law enforcement agencies statewide in 
enhancing their cold case investigation strategies and practices. In addition to CBI staff, 
district attorneys and members of local law enforcement are often in attendance at 
meetings, which serve as a vital sounding board to discuss techniques and bring up 
cases.  
 
Investigative strategies are always evolving. The Task Force’s composition provides 
insightful perspectives in the consideration and analysis of best practices of cold case 
investigations. It currently consists of 16 members including representatives of law 
enforcement, the Executive Director of the Department of Public Safety (Executive 
Director and DPS, respectively), the Attorney General, district attorneys, and family 
members of homicide victims. 47 If there are differing perspectives concerning 
investigation techniques, the Task Force serves as a useful setting for law enforcement 
to have a robust, constructive discussion on issues related to cold case investigations.  
 
One unique perspective on the Task Force is that brought by the forensic pathologist. 
A forensic pathologist is a medical professional that investigates unexpected or 
suspicious deaths. They often work in both governmental settings, such as coroner’s or 
medical examiner’s offices, to conduct postmortem examinations or autopsies. 48  
Unlike law enforcement and legal experts, this perspective helps bring specialized 
medical expertise to the Task Force. 
 
 
45 § 24-33.5-425(2), C.R.S. 
46 Id. 
47 § 24-33.5-109(2), C.R.S. 
48 College of American Pathologists. What You Need to Know About Forensic Pathology. Retrieved September 2, 
2025, from https://www.cap.org/member-resources/articles/what-you-need-to-know-about-forensic-pathology 
