 
 
15 | P a g e 
The Task Force also includes members from statewide victim advocacy organizations, 
along with family members of homicide victims. This is a crucial perspective that law 
enforcement may not always have direct access to. Having these members at Task Force 
meetings can help to inform law enforcement on how to communicate with victims’ 
families. They can also remind law enforcement personnel of the significance of 
actively pursuing cold case investigations.  
 
In addition, any member of the public may attend the Task Force’s meetings and leave 
public comments for the members to consider. Given the sensitive nature of cold cases, 
it is vital to preserve this opportunity for Coloradans who might be family members or 
friends of homicide victims. It provides a public forum for them to inform law 
enforcement about the importance of their cases, some of which may have been under 
investigation for years to no avail. If a case goes unnoticed, the Task Force can also 
serve as an avenue for loved ones to sound their concerns and place pressure on law 
enforcement to pursue cases. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether the program is necessary to protect public 
health, safety and welfare. The sixth criterion asks whether an analysis of agency 
operations indicates that the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its 
statutory duties efficiently and effectively. The seventh criterion looks at the 
composition of the agency’s board or commission to see if it adequately represents the 
public interest. Criterion fourteen asks if statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
If the Task Force were to sunset, there would be one less avenue for CBI, law 
enforcement, and members of the public to discuss cold cases. Cold cases are incredibly 
difficult to prosecute and investigate compared to crimes where commission took place 
more recently. Additionally, many law enforcement agencies do not have the resources 
to devote to investigating cold cases on a full-time basis. As such, the Task Force serves 
as a learning tool for agencies to learn about investigative techniques.  
 
Behind every missing person or unsolved murder case is a family who continues to look 
for answers. If the Task Force were to sunset, these individuals would lose an avenue 
to voice their concerns and remind the public, including law enforcement, about their 
cases.  
 
Because of these reasons, the Task Force is necessary to protect public health, safety, 
and welfare and the General Assembly should continue it for 13 years. This timeline is 
commensurate to the recommendations made in this report.  
 
In addition to continuation, a change should be made to the type of sunset review 
conducted of the Task Force. The Colorado Office of Policy, Research, and Regulatory 
Reform (COPRRR) conducts two types of sunset reviews. The first type is conducted 
under section 24-34-104, Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). Title 24 sunset reviews 
tend to be longer, more comprehensive reviews of regulatory programs such as those 
that administer licenses, conduct examinations, receive complaints, levy fines and 
