 
 
16 | P a g e 
enforcement, or have rulemaking functions. Title 24 sunset reviews require a 
considerable expenditure of time and energy, both by the agency under review and by 
COPRRR. 
 
Title 2 sunset reviews, on the other hand, tend to focus on advisory committees and 
provide a means to assess the efficacy of such committees. Title 2 sunset reviews are 
conducted over a much shorter period of time, are more limited in scope, and are 
considerably less complex compared to the year-long Title 24 reviews. Title 2 reviews 
consider the reason for an advisory committee’s creation, whether it achieved that 
mission, and whether there is any work for it left to do. They only make 
recommendations to continue or sunset. This approach is more logical for advisory 
committees, to which the Task Force is more akin. 
 
The current sunset review of the Task Force was conducted pursuant to Title 24. The 
reasoning for this is not known. The Task Force has no licensing, enforcement, or 
rulemaking authority. It functions mostly in an advisory capacity. When conducting the 
sunset review, it was difficult to properly assess the program under Title 24’s criteria.  
 
The last two sunset reviews combined made only one substantive recommendation—to 
alter the composition of the Task Force. In 2011, COPRRR recommended continuing the 
Task Force and adding a new member. In 2018, the sunset review only recommended 
continuation. Although not completely determinative, this helps to demonstrate that a 
Title 24 sunset review may not be necessary. 
 
Title 2 sunset reviews are specifically designed for advisory committees and would thus 
provide a more proper means of evaluating the Task Force. Hence the General Assembly 
should establish that future sunset reviews of the Task Force are conducted pursuant 
to Title 2, which focuses on advisory committees, rather than Title 24.   
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Authorize the Executive Director to appoint additional 
members to the Task Force. 
 
The overarching duty of the Task Force is to review cold case homicide investigation 
strategies and make recommendations on best practices.49 As such, the Task force is 
made up of a large, diverse body consisting of the following 16 members:50 
 
• The Executive Director, or their designee;  
• The Attorney General, or their designee;  
• Three district attorneys, or their designees, appointed by the Executive Director 
of the Colorado District Attorneys’ Council; 
• Two members who represent a statewide victims advocacy organization, 
appointed by the Governor;  
 
49 § 24-33.5-109(6), C.R.S. 
50 § 24-33.5-109(2), C.R.S. 
