 
 
17 | P a g e 
• One sheriff and one police chief appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives;  
• One sheriff and one police chief appointed by the President of the Senate;  
• Two representatives from victims’ families appointed by the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives;  
• Two representatives from victims’ families appointed by the President of the 
Senate; and 
• A forensic pathologist who is appointed by the Governor. 
 
However, cold case investigation techniques are always evolving. In 2018, law 
enforcement began incorporating forensic investigative genetic genealogy to help solve 
cold cases.51 Such techniques involve gathering DNA evidence and comparing them to 
public genealogy databases.52 This might help find new leads in an investigation that 
has otherwise been stalled.53 CBI anticipates that, as forensic investigative genetic 
genealogy services become more widely used by law enforcement throughout the state, 
an expert in the area would be a helpful addition to the Task Force.  
 
Recently there have been advancements made in DNA phenotyping, which can help 
investigators predict ancestry and physical traits like hair or eye color.54 In addition, 
virtual reality and three-dimensional printing are starting to be utilized to create three-
dimensional environments that serve as reconstructions of crime scenes. 55 Even 
artificial intelligence is being used by law enforcement to help aggregate existing case 
evidence.56 Algorithms can be formulated to aggregate and analyze digital forensic 
evidence, witness statements, and public data to find leads about suspects or victims. 
These examples show that there may always be emerging technologies in the field of 
cold case investigations. 
 
Because of the complexity of cold case investigations compared to those of other 
crimes, and the constantly emerging technology used to help solve such crimes, it would 
be beneficial for the Executive Director to be able to appoint additional members of 
the Task Force going forward.  
 
The Executive Director currently has no appointing authority. The Speaker of the House 
and President of the Senate each appoint one sheriff and one police chief. They also 
 
51 Claire Glynn, " Bridging Disciplines to Form a New One: The Emergence of Forensic Genetic Genealogy,” Genes 
(2022). 
52 NPR. Using Genetic Genealogy To Identify Unknown Crime Victims, Sometimes Decades Later. Retrieved 
September 2, 2025, from https://www.npr.org/2019/01/08/682925589/using-genetic-genealogy-to-identify-
unknown-crime-victims-sometimes-decades-late 
53 NBC News. 50-year-old Colorado cold case solved after DNA technology identifies woman's killer. Retrieved 
September 2, 2025, from https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/50-year-old-colorado-cold-case-solved-
womans-killer-identified-dna-tec-rcna136805 
54 Melissa Hernandez. “Advancements in Technology to Solve Cold Cases,” Themis: Research Journal of Justice 
Studies and Forensic Science (2023), p. 6. 
55 Chiara Villa, et al, “A Virtual, 3D Multimodal Approach to Victim and Crime Scene Reconstruction,” Diagnostics 
(2023), p. 1. 
56 The Record. Law enforcement is using AI to synthesize evidence. Is the justice system ready for it? Retrieved 
October 2, 2025, from https://therecord.media/law-enforcement-ai-platforms-synthesize-evidence-criminal-cases 
