Executive Order D 2026 008 
June 16, 2026 
Page 1 of 2 
D 2026 008 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Activating the Colorado National Guard to Assist with  
Election Cybersecurity Defense Efforts 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 5 of the Colorado Constitution and C.R.S. § 28-3-104, 
et seq., I, Jared Polis, Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order 
activating no less than four (4) and up to six (6) unarmed members of the Colorado National 
Guard Task Force Cyber to assist with election cybersecurity defense efforts during the 2026 
Primary Election. 
 
Background and Purpose 
Like many states, Colorado uses online voter registration systems that allow eligible 
citizens to access and update their voter registration information. These systems are protected by 
various security features that maintain confidentiality and prevent data tampering or interference 
with data. 
Even with such security features, online voter registration systems could provide an 
avenue for cyber actors to gain unlawful access to voter registration databases. Outside of 
Colorado, voter registration databases have been compromised by cyber actors hacking into 
various systems. While cyber actors are unable to modify voter records, breaches could result in 
the release of voters’ personally identifiable information. The exposure of voters’ personally 
identifiable information does not threaten the integrity of our State elections, but it could 
undermine public confidence in the system and suppress voter registration. The Colorado 
National Guard Task Force Cyber has unique cyber skills and capabilities to assist in protecting 
critical election infrastructure. 
The Colorado Secretary of State has requested that the Colorado National Guard Task 
Force Cyber provide election cybersecurity support on June 16, 2026, and extending for up to 
thirty (30) days, for the 2026 Primary Election. By activating no less than four (4) and up to six 
(6) unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard Task Force Cyber, the National Guard 
will support the Secretary of State with election cybersecurity defense efforts up to and including 
the 2026 Primary Election on June 30, 2026. 
 
 
