 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. Meeting Agenda: A written agenda, to the extent required by law, shall be prepared by 
the Secretary or assistant secretary for each regular and special meeting of the Board, and 
posted at least 24 hours prior to the meeting at the place or places established each year 
by the Board as required by law. The regular meeting agenda shall generally be prepared 
and sent by electronic means to all Board members at least five (5) days prior to each 
regular meeting. The agendas for each regular and special meeting shall consist of items 
requested by the President of the Board or, in the absence of the President, the Vice 
President, the Executive Director, or at least three (3) members of the Board. Board 
members shall submit requests for agenda items to the President or, in the President’s 
absence, the Vice President and the Executive Director. The agenda may be changed by 
the President or by majority vote of the Board members present.  
F. Executive Sessions: The President shall poll Board members, and, upon consent of 
two-thirds (2/3) of the Board members present, may hold a closed executive session. If 
consent for the closed executive session is not given, the item may be discussed in open 
session or withdrawn from consideration. The reasons for going into executive session 
shall only be those allowed for a local public body under Section 24-6-402, C.R.S. 
G. No Administrative Authority: The Board shall act only by motion or resolution at a 
regular or special meeting of the Board. No individual member of the Board shall give 
individual administrative direction to the Executive Director or Public Health staff or in 
any manner exercise individually any administrative authority with respect to Public 
Health. 
H. Policy Statements: No individual member of the Board shall make a statement of 
policy which purports to be that of the Board unless the Board shall have adopted such 
policy, but no Board member shall be prohibited from stating his or her personal 
opinions, provided they are clearly identified as being personal.  
I. Board Responsibilities: It is the responsibility of the Board to understand and carry out 
powers and duties pursuant to Part 5 of Article I of Title 25, C.R.S., relating to public 
health. As such, each Board member must recognize his or her responsibilities as a Board 
member, and the administrative roles and responsibilities of the Executive Director. 
SECTION 1.4: COMMITTEES 
A majority of the Board shall have the power to appoint regular, temporary or ad hoc 
committees as deemed necessary to study matters coming before the Board and to make 
recommendations to the full Board. The Board may appoint itself as a Committee of the 
Whole to hear any matters that may be brought before it. The creation of all such 
committees and appointments thereto shall be done in an open and public meeting. All 
committee meetings shall be held in compliance with the Colorado Open Meetings Law, 
Section 24-6-402, C.R.S. 
SECTION 1.5: ANNUAL AUDIT AND ANNUAL BUDGET 
As soon as practical following approval of an annual audit of Public Health, the Secretary 
shall file in the offices of the El Paso County Board of County Commissioners a report of 
the preceding year’s activities of Public Health, which audit shall include a copy of the 
auditor’s recommendations, if any. On or before September 1 of each year, Public Health 
shall present to the Board of County Commissioners a proposed budget for the next 
Public Health fiscal year in order to provide the Board of County Commissioners with an 
5/23/2012 
