 
 
1560 Broadway, Suite 1550, Denver, CO 80202   P 303.894.7855   1.800.866.7675  www.colorado.gov/dora 
October 15, 2025 
 
Members of the Colorado General Assembly 
c/o the Office of Legislative Legal Services 
State Capitol Building 
Denver, Colorado 80203 
 
The Colorado General Assembly established the sunset review process in 1976 as a way 
to analyze and evaluate regulatory programs and determine the least restrictive 
regulation consistent with the public interest. Pursuant to section 24-34-104(5)(a), 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and 
Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) at the Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) 
undertakes a robust review process culminating in the release of multiple reports each 
year on October 15. 
  
A national leader in regulatory reform, COPRRR takes the vision of their office, DORA 
and more broadly of our state government seriously. Specifically, COPRRR contributes 
to the strong economic landscape in Colorado by ensuring that we have thoughtful, 
efficient, and inclusive regulations that reduce barriers to entry into various professions 
and that open doors of opportunity for all Coloradans. 
  
As part of this year’s review, COPRRR has completed an evaluation of the Public Utilities 
Commission (Commission).  I am pleased to submit this written report, which will be 
the basis for COPRRR’s oral testimony before the 2026 legislative committee of 
reference. 
  
The report discusses the question of whether there is a need for the regulation provided 
under Title 40, C.R.S. The report also discusses the effectiveness of the Commission 
and staff in carrying out the intent of the statutes and makes recommendations for 
statutory changes for the review and discussion of the General Assembly. 
 
Notably, on May 23, 2025, Governor Polis vetoed House Bill 25-1291 (HB 1291), which 
would have made significant changes to the state’s regulation of transportation network 
companies (TNCs).  In vetoing the bill, Governor Polis specifically directed COPRRR to, 
 
explore recommendations to update the TNC regulatory structure and, if 
needed, expand the [Commission’s] authority in regulating TNCs, with a 
specific focus on passenger safety and enhanced transparency[.] 
 
As part of the sunset review, COPRRR staff engaged with stakeholders who participated 
in the development of HB 1291 and is aware that Commission staff further engaged with 
stakeholders and sponsors. 
 
This sunset report contains five recommendations aimed at improving TNC passenger 
