 
 
10 | P a g e 
Profile of the Industries 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what the Public 
Utilities Commission does and what industries it regulates. 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition. 
 
In Colorado, the Public Utilities Commission (Commission) is comprised of three 
members who are appointed by the Governor. Notably, there are a variety of 
commission structures utilized throughout the country. As such, COPRRR compared the 
structure of commissions (or commission equivalents) in all contiguous states west of 
the Mississippi River. Topics included: where the commission is housed in state 
government; which industries/utilities are regulated; size of the commission; 
requirements for commissioners to be elected/appointed; and how commissions are 
administered, including staffing.  
 
Of the 21 states researched, most of the states’ commissions are stand-alone agencies, 
whereas Colorados’ Commission is part of a larger department structure. Thirteen of 
the states’ commissions are composed of three commissioners (including Colorado), and 
eight are composed of five commissioners. Of the 21 states, the Governors of 14 states 
appoint their commissioners (including Colorado), while the commissioners in seven 
states are elected. 
 
Most of the states’ commissions, including Colorado, have a non-commissioner staff 
member (such as a Director, Executive Director, Executive Secretary, or Chief Executive 
Officer) perform the administrative duties involved in running the agency. Only two of 
the states surveyed have a commission chair directly perform these duties. 
Nonetheless, several states’ commissioners make personnel decisions, with the non-
commissioner staff directly responsible for managing human resources. Often, the non-
commissioner staff member with hiring/firing duties performs these functions with 
consent and/or collaboration with the commissioners, especially for staff reporting 
directly to the commissioners. Commission staff sizes range considerably from under 20 
to over 500 total staff members, and the higher ranges usually correlate with the 
commissions that have both administrative and trial staff. Notably, California’s and 
Texas’s commissions did not respond to inquiries about staff size, so their staff numbers 
may be higher than this upper range. 
 
Thus, while commission structures vary from state to state, the structure of Colorado’s 
Commission is not out of the ordinary.  
