 
 
11 | P a g e 
In Colorado, the Commission’s regulatory authority encompasses six general categories: 
energy, gas pipeline safety, telecommunications, transportation, rail/transit safety, 
and water. 
 
 
Energy 
 
More than ever before, modern society depends upon reliable electrical service to 
ensure economic prosperity, national security and public health and safety.  Without 
electricity, everyday things like food preparation, water distribution and law and order 
become difficult or impossible.  New industries and services, such as artificial 
intelligence and data centers are driving demand and reliability requirements to new 
heights. 
 
Capital investment in the electric industry is a significant driver of the overall cost of 
electricity. While coal and natural gas were historically used to generate most 
electricity, renewable energy resources such as wind and solar have become significant 
suppliers of electricity.  More recent efforts at developing energy storage technologies, 
such as batteries, and the evolution of microgrids are also likely to play important roles 
in the future. 
 
The electric distribution system in the United States is highly complex, but, in the end, 
it consists of little more than the movement of electrons from one physical location to 
another at the time they are needed. This requires careful and constant monitoring of 
demand and supply. Power must be brought online, ramped up or down, and taken 
offline within precise time limitations to match the fluctuations in demand, or load, for 
electricity throughout the grid in order to prevent system instability or collapse. 
 
Electrons are most commonly generated at power plants. A power plant may be owned 
by a utility or by an independent power producer (IPP), and it may be located inside or 
outside of Colorado. Colorado’s peak summer generating capacity in 2023, the last year 
for which such data are available, was 19,541 megawatts (MW), of which 8,334 MW 
(42.6 percent) was produced by IPP’s or combined heat and power (CHP) producers.2,3 
 
There are three primary types of electric utilities in Colorado that distribute or transmit 
electricity: investor-owned utilities, municipal utilities and cooperatives. The 
Commission has financial, electric resource planning, and quality of service regulatory 
authority over two investor-owned electric utilities and limited electric resource and 
transmission planning regulatory authority over one wholesale electric transmission and 
generation cooperative utility.  The Commission has only partial regulatory authority 
over municipal electric utilities (annual reporting and rates when services are offered 
 
2 CHP systems, also known as cogeneration systems, generate electricity and useful thermal energy in a single, 
integrated system.  See American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy.  Combined Heat and Power (CHP).  
Retrieved July 16, 2025, from www.aceee.org/topics/chp 
3 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Electricity: Colorado Electricity Profile 2023. Retrieved July 16, 2025, 
from www.eia.gov/electricity/state/colorado/ 
