 
 
12 | P a g e 
outside of municipal boundaries and only if those rates differ from those charged to 
municipal customers) and 25 electric cooperative associations (transmission lines). The 
Commission has jurisdiction over intrastate transmission lines, distribution lines and 
substations in Colorado for the two investor-owned utilities and intrastate transmission 
lines and substations for one transmission and generation cooperative. 
 
The General Assembly and the Commission have established a rigorous process by which 
investment in electric generation facilities is vetted and ultimately determined to be 
in the public interest.  Both investor-owned utilities are required to file electric 
resource plan applications.  When a regulated utility seeks to construct, own and 
operate a generating facility to service Colorado consumers, the utility must obtain a 
certificate of public convenience and necessity from the Commission.  In other words, 
the utility must demonstrate that the generating facility is necessary. 
 
Electricity can be generated in many ways.  Historically, the most common method was 
the coal-fired plant.  Coal is burned to heat water, creating steam, forcing a turbine to 
turn, thereby creating electricity.  Although coal itself is relatively inexpensive, the 
cost of a coal plant can easily reach into the billions of dollars and take five or more 
years to construct.  Additionally, it takes hours to fire up a coal plant and bring it online 
and hours to take one offline.  As a result, coal plants are considered to be base-load 
generating facilities, meaning that they are depended on to be online most of the time.  
The majority of Colorado’s coal plants are 40 to 50 years old and the last of these is 
scheduled to close by the end of 2031. 
 
Natural gas-fired plants have become more common in the last few decades.  Depending 
on the type of plant, the natural gas may be used to power a gas turbine, which is 
similar to an aircraft jet engine, thereby creating electricity.  Additionally, in a 
combined cycle plant, the exhaust from the turbine heats water, creating steam, 
forcing a steam turbine to turn, thereby generating even more electricity. 
 
Although natural gas may sometimes be more expensive than coal, prices are subject 
to international market conditions and can fluctuate wildly.  Natural gas power plants 
can be built at substantially less cost and, generally, in less time than coal plants.  Many 
can be taken online or offline in a matter of minutes, making them ideal for both base- 
and peak- load operations. 
 
Even more recently, renewable sources of energy have gained a larger share of 
generating capacity in the state.  These include, but are not limited to: hydroelectric, 
geothermal, biomass, wind turbines and solar arrays.  The amount of energy produced 
by these sources is growing quickly and their cost is now competitive with both coal 
and natural gas.  However, since these sources are dependent on the sun shining or the 
wind blowing, they have not, for reliability purposes, been considered base-load 
sources.  Rather, these types of resources have historically been considered 
intermittent or “must take” sources, meaning that when the sun shines during the day 
or the wind blows, typically in the evenings, these resources are utilized, regardless of 
