 
 
13 | P a g e 
systemic demand at the moment.  Emerging storage technologies, such as batteries, 
are quickly changing that status, however.  
 
The passage of Amendment 37 in 2004 popularized a new type of generation in 
Colorado—customer-sited generation. This allows consumers, and others, to install solar 
panels, for example, and receive federal tax incentives as well as incentives from some 
utilities. In short, customer-sited generation not only reduces the amount of electricity 
that these consumers take from the grid, but allows them, through net metering, to 
sell their generated and unused electricity back to the utility by allowing the electricity 
to flow onto the grid. 
 
How electricity is generated and distributed continues to evolve.  Customer-sited 
generation has led to distributed generation, such as solar gardens.  Micro grids are 
another form of distribution that is limited to certain geographic regions. 
 
The energy mix of Colorado’s power producers in March 2025 consisted of: non-
hydroelectric renewables (44.4 percent); coal (26.2 percent); natural gas (26.27 
percent) and hydroelectric (3.6 percent).4 
 
Once the electricity has been generated, it enters the grid and the electrons flow 
through a series of transmission and distribution lines. Higher voltage transmission lines 
are used to transport the electrons over greater distances and step-down substations 
and transformers are used to take the electricity from higher voltage to relatively lower 
voltage transmission and distribution lines until, ultimately, the electricity is delivered 
to the end user. 
 
Once the electrons reach the end user, a meter records the amount of electrons taken 
off the grid, as well as the rate of consumption for larger commercial users, which then 
serves as the basis for that customer’s bill from the utility. 
 
Recent advances in distributed generation, energy storage, smart meters and grids, 
micro grids, virtual power plants and regional transmission organizations, along with a 
multitude of other factors, make the future of Colorado’s energy infrastructure, and 
the Commission’s role in regulating it, increasingly dynamic. 
 
Natural Gas 
 
Natural gas is extracted from the ground and then transported through gathering lines 
to processing facilities where impurities such as water, heavy metals and valuable 
liquids are removed.  The gas is then compressed and sent into transmission lines, which 
deliver the gas to local distribution companies, more commonly referred to as natural 
gas utilities, for ultimate distribution to the end user who may use the gas to, among 
other things, heat a structure, heat water or generate electricity. 
 
 
4 U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Colorado: State Profile and Energy Estimates.  Retrieved July 16, 2025, 
from www.eia.gov/state/?sid=CO#tabs-4 
