 
 
14 | P a g e 
There are two primary types of natural gas utilities: investor-owned and municipal.  
Colorado has four investor-owned natural gas utilities, five investor-owned propane 
utilities, and nine municipal natural gas utilities.   
 
While the Commission fully regulates the rates and service that investor-owned utilities 
provide their customers, the Commission asserts jurisdiction over municipal utilities 
only when they serve customers outside their physical boundaries and only when those 
customers are charged more than customers within the municipality’s physical 
boundaries. 
 
Regardless of the type of utility, natural gas utilities buy natural gas in an unregulated, 
competitive wholesale market.  As a result of fluctuations in this market, and due to 
differences in forecasted versus actual costs, the cost to consumers also fluctuates 
through a gas cost adjustment mechanism and hedging programs regulated by the 
Commission.  While this may result in more volatile natural gas bills, it provides 
customers with a price signal and encourages conservation when the cost of gas is 
relatively high.  Following the experience of Winter Storm Uri in 2022, the General 
Assembly enacted legislation requiring the Commission to set a ceiling for gas prices to 
help insulate customers from extremely high prices. 
 
Steam 
 
Steam is generally used to heat and, in some cases, cool buildings.  Additionally, the 
steam can be used to heat water for laundries, as is most common in the hotel industry. 
 
The steam is created at a plant by burning natural gas to heat the water, thereby 
creating steam.  Additives are injected into the steam to prevent corrosion of the steam 
pipeline system and to inhibit bacterial growth, and then the steam is delivered into 
the steam pipeline system.  Steam customers are connected to the steam pipeline 
system and take steam as they need it. 
 
In Colorado, there is only one steam utility, and it serves approximately 115 commercial 
customers in downtown Denver.  Two of the utility’s larger customers are the City and 
County of Denver and the State of Colorado. 
 
The advantage to a customer of buying steam from a utility is the avoidance of 
purchasing, installing and maintaining a boiler for an individual building.  Additionally, 
not all buildings have the physical space required to accommodate a boiler. 
 
Geothermal 
 
Large-scale geothermal energy projects involve tapping into superheated water under 
the earth’s surface and using that water either as a heat source or to generate 
electricity.  Several limitations on the practicality of geothermal energy involve the 
depth at which the water is located and the relative depth of magma from the earth’s 
surface. 
