 
 
15 | P a g e 
Tapping into such a large-scale geothermal energy source is akin to drilling for oil.  The 
reservoirs are typically miles below the surface and require the well to be encased and 
topped off before the resource can be exploited.  As a result, it can be very expensive 
to develop geothermal energy sources. 
 
Regardless, geothermal energy is used in several Colorado locations, including providing 
space heating and hot water on a community scale, to heat pools and spas, to heat 
green houses and even for aquaculture.5 
 
Additionally, one Colorado utility is piloting some thermal energy network systems 
pursuant to House Bill 23-1252. 
 
 
Pipeline Safety 
 
Pipelines transport energy products throughout the country to heat and cool homes, 
power businesses and fuel transportation systems. 6 The Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) in the U.S. Department of Transportation 
regulates pipelines that include: 
 
• Natural gas pipelines, and 
• Hazardous liquids. 
 
Both federal and state agencies regulate pipelines throughout the United States. 
Interstate pipelines are regulated by PHMSA. The federal government is responsible for 
developing, issuing and enforcing pipeline safety regulations. Most inspections, however, 
are conducted by state agencies. State regulations must be at least as stringent as 
federal regulations, and states are responsible for the regulation, inspection and 
enforcement of pipelines within state boundaries.7 
 
PHMSA annually certifies each state agency that conducts inspections and enforces 
pipeline safety within its state lines.  The PUC serves this function for Colorado. 
 
There are three different types of gas pipelines:8 
 
• Gas distribution pipelines, which distribute gas to homes and businesses; 
• Gas transmission pipelines, which transport gas thousands of miles across the 
country from processing facilities; and 
 
5 Colorado Geological Survey.  Geothermal.  Retrieved July 16, 2025, from 
www.coloradogeologicalsurvey.org/energy/e-geothermal/ 
6 Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation. General Pipeline 
FAQs. Retrieved August 22, 2025, from https://www.phmsa.dot.gov/faqs/general-pipeline-faqs  
7 National Conference of State Legislatures. Federal and State Responsibilities. Retrieved August 22, 2025, from 
http://www.ncsl.org/research/energy/state-gas-pipelines-federal-and-state-responsibili.aspx  
8 U.S. Department of Transportation.  Natural Gas Pipeline Systems.  Retrieved August 22, 2025, from 
https://primis.phmsa.dot.gov/comm/NaturalGasPipelineSystems.htm 
