 
 
16 | P a g e 
• Gas gathering pipelines, which transport raw natural gas from production wells 
to transmission pipelines. 
 
The PUC has jurisdiction over intrastate pipelines, including approximately:9  
 
• 39,063 miles of gas distribution lines, 
• 2,840 miles of gas transmission lines, and 
• 5,334 miles of regulated gas gathering lines. 
 
PHMSA oversees interstate gas transportation and all hazardous liquid transportation, 
and the Colorado Energy and Carbon Management Commission promulgates and 
enforces rules for pipelines directly associated with gas and oil production.  Only the 
PUC’s oversight of intrastate pipelines is relevant to this report.  
 
 
Telecommunications 
 
Over the last 40 years, the telecommunications industry has undergone several historic 
changes. The first of these involved the American Telegraph and Telephone Company 
(AT&T), which dominated the U.S. telecommunications industry throughout much of 
the 20th century. In 1982, after contesting a federal antitrust lawsuit for several years, 
AT&T agreed to divestment of its local operating companies. 
 
The divestiture of AT&T, which was completed in 1984, created competition in the 
long-distance market, and it also provided an opportunity for the formation of multiple 
new local service telecommunications companies. Specifically, AT&T was divided into 
seven Regional Bell Operating Companies (RBOCs), commonly known as the “Baby 
Bells.” In Colorado, Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph (Mountain Bell) became 
one of three major subsidiaries consolidated under the umbrella of US West, one of the 
seven RBOCs, which later merged with Qwest, another competitive local exchange 
provider and, following another merger in 2011, CenturyLink. In 2020, CenturyLink 
adopted the name Lumen Technologies. 
 
With the breakup of AT&T, and the continued evolution of the telecommunications 
industry, the country’s service areas (territories) were divided into Local Access 
Transport Areas (LATAs). In Colorado, there are two LATAs. One LATA covers the 303, 
720, 719 and 983 area codes, and the other LATA covers the 970 and 748 area codes. 
At the time of divestiture, intrastate calls were subject to Commission jurisdiction, 
while interstate calls fell under the jurisdiction of the federal government. 
 
Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (FTA), which transformed the 
Communications Act of 1934. The new law permitted a variety of companies, including 
cable, wireless, long-distance and satellite companies, to compete in offering 
 
9 Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies. Pipeline Safety Program. September 24, 2025 Base Grant 
Application. 
