 
 
17 | P a g e 
telecommunications services for both local and long-distance services. The FTA 
established provisions for new companies or Competitive Local Exchange Carriers 
(CLECs) to compete with existing or Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs) in the 
local service market. The purpose of the FTA was to create a competitive 
telecommunications market.  
 
The FTA also enabled the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to preempt any 
state or local law or regulation that presents an “illegitimate barrier” to the 
telecommunications market by favoring one provider over another. Under the FTA, 
ILECs are required to resell or lease to other competitive carriers (CLECs) access to 
their physical infrastructure at any technically feasible point as well as provide access 
to other services, such as directory assistance and emergency service. ILECs, in turn, 
are permitted to offer long-distance services within their incumbent territory. The new 
law also permitted a variety of companies, including cable, wireless, long-distance and 
satellite companies, to compete in offering telecommunications services for both local 
and long-distance services.  
 
 
Transportation 
 
Motor Carriers 
 
The Commission regulates motor carriers operating in Colorado. To varying degrees, 
the Commission regulates commercial enterprises that transport people and/or goods. 
The common foundation of motor carrier regulation, regardless of the category in which 
a motor carrier company may be classified is public safety and company 
indemnification. The PUC has the right to inspect the “motor vehicles, facilities, and 
records and documents” of motor carriers to enforce regulation.10  
 
The PUC’s oversight of motor carriers generally entails verifying the safety and 
insurance of passenger carriers, household goods movers, and towing/immobilization  
carriers who operate on an intrastate basis, rate regulation of towing carriers, large-
market taxi companies, and common and contract carriers; and market entry for 
common and contract carriers. The Commission also regulates booting/immobilization 
companies.  
 
Generally, the difference between a common and a contract carrier is that a common 
carrier provides indiscriminate service to the public and charges are paid by the 
passenger. An example is a taxi which must give a ride to any member of the public 
without discrimination. A contract carrier, on the other hand, provides services based 
on a contract. An example is a transportation company that contracts with a property 
owner to transport guests for a fee paid by the property owner and not the guests. 
 
 
10 § 40-10.1-102, C.R.S. 
