 
 
18 | P a g e 
A full list of the types of motor carriers regulated by the Commission is as follows: 
 
• Common Carrier (taxi/shuttle/sightseeing), 
• Contract Carrier, 
• Luxury Limousine, 
• Children’s Activity Bus, 
• Charter Bus, 
• Off-Road Scenic Charter, 
• Fire Crew Transport, 
• Towing Carrier, 
• Booting Companies, 
• Household Goods Mover, and 
• Large-Market Taxicab Service. 
 
Additionally, in 2014, Colorado became the first state to regulate transportation 
network companies (TNCs). Statute defines a TNC as a:  
 
…corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other entity, operating 
in Colorado, that uses a digital network to connect riders to drivers for 
the purpose of providing transportation. A transportation network 
company does not provide taxi service, transportation service arranged 
through a transportation broker, ridesharing arrangements…or any 
transportation service over fixed routes at regular intervals. A 
transportation network company is not deemed to own, control, operate, 
or manage the personal vehicles used by transportation network company 
drivers. A transportation network company does not include a political 
subdivision or other entity exempted from federal income tax under 
section 115 of the federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986”, as amended. 
 
Unless regulation is specifically delineated in statute, TNCs are exempt from the 
Commission's rate, market entry, operational, and common carrier requirements. 
 
According to statute, TNCs are explicitly not regulated as motor carriers. However, they 
are subject to limited regulation by the Commission. 
   
Several revisions to the regulation of the non-consensual towing industry have occurred 
within recent years, as evidenced by the passage of House Bills 21-1283, 22-1314, and 
24-1051. These pieces of legislation have granted additional authority to the 
Commission to enforce new standards on towing carriers. Rates for most types of tows 
and storage are regulated by the Commission in rule. These rates are currently subject 
to annual adjustments, which occur annually in March. Any registered towing company 
may apply for a waiver or variance of any towing rules set by the Commission. Regarding 
consensual towing, the Commission regulates permitting, insurance and safety, but not 
rates. 
 
