 
 
19 | P a g e 
Commission involvement with interstate motor carriers is extremely limited. The PUC 
is the designated agency for Colorado to manage the federal Unified Carrier 
Registration System (UCR).11 The UCR is a federal-state revenue program for interstate 
motor carriers, brokers, and leasing companies.  
 
Rail/Transit Safety 
 
The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) mandates that every state with a rail fixed 
guideway system must have an approved State Safety Oversight (SSO) program. A rail 
fixed guideway system, as defined in Colorado law is, 12   
 
…any light, heavy, or rapid rail system, monorail, inclined plane, 
funicular, trolley, or automated guideway used to transport passengers 
that is not regulated by the federal railroad administration. 
 
Rail fixed guideway systems do not include funiculars that are passenger tramways as 
defined in section 12-150-103(5)(c), C.R.S., and are subject to the jurisdiction of the 
Colorado Passenger Tramway Safety Board, or automatic people movers that are 
automated guideway mechanical conveyances as defined in section 9-5.5-103(11), 
C.R.S., and are subject to the jurisdiction of the Colorado Division of Oil and Public 
Safety.  
 
The PUC houses the SSO program. Among other tasks, the program must adopt and 
enforce laws concerning safety and employ individuals who have completed the Public 
Transportation Safety Training Program.13 
 
The PUC acts in conjunction with the FTA, and Colorado must follow federal guidelines 
in order to retain its authority as an SSO.  The SSO program was re-certified by the FTA 
in 2018 as being compliant with federal laws and rules.  
 
Aside from the federal mandates, the Commission also has sole authority over rail 
systems that operate on intrastate lines that are not connected to the interstate system 
of lines.14 
 
Regulation of rail by the Commission is limited to safeguarding highway-rail grade 
crossings consisting of an intersection between a railroad right-of-way with a public 
roadway to ensure these crossings are safe.  It regulates everything about these 
highway-rail crossings from grade to signage to active warning safety appliances to 
bridge structures.  The Commission also regulates safe clearances of tracks and 
structures. 
 
 
 
11 § 40-10.5-102(2)(a), C.R.S. 
12 § 40-18-101(3), C.R.S. 
13 49 CFR § 674.11 
14 4 CCR § 723-7-7100, Rules Regulating Railroads, Rail Fixed Guideways, Transportation By Rail, And Rail Crossings. 
