 
 
20 | P a g e 
Water Utilities 
 
In Colorado, water utilities are regulated in several ways. Most water utilities, such as 
municipal water utilities and special water districts, fall outside the jurisdiction of the 
Commission. These entities are accountable to consumers through their own bylaws and 
governing procedures. Corporations registered as non-profits are also exempt from 
Commission oversight 15 although, in some circumstances, formal complaints are 
permitted.  
 
For-profit water utilities, however, are subject to Commission jurisdiction under 
limited circumstances. If the Commission receives a complaint against a for-profit water 
utility, it asserts regulatory authority over the utility.  
 
The water utilities that are currently regulated by the Commission include four small 
investor-owned entities. All four are regulated due to a complaint or complaints having 
been filed against them, typically involving rate increases.  
 
Once the Commission asserts authority over an investor-owned water utility, it approves 
tariffs, which set rates and terms of service for the utility. The Commission reviews 
requests for rate changes by the investor-owned water utilities to ensure that the 
proposed rate changes meet financial, engineering, legal and economic requirements. 
In addition to approving rate changes, the PUC assists investor-owned water utilities in 
establishing standards to initiate and maintain service and equipment to an appropriate 
level for the comfort and convenience of the customers. 
 
For small, under 1,500 customers, privately owned water utilities, the Commission 
provides regulatory oversight through simplified regulatory treatment. Specifically, 
section 40-3-104.4, C.R.S., states:  
 
The Commission, with due consideration to public interest, quality of 
service, financial condition, and just and reasonable rates, must grant 
regulatory treatment that is less comprehensive than otherwise provided 
for under this article to small, privately owned water companies that 
serve fewer than 1,500 customers. The Commission, when considering 
policy statements and rules, must balance reasonable regulatory oversight 
with the cost of regulation in relation to the benefit derived from such 
regulation. 
 
 
 
15 § 40-3-104.4, C.R.S. 
