 
 
21 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Energy 
 
The following timeline outlines significant regulation milestones related to electric 
utilities:  
 
1961 – All suppliers of electricity, including cooperative and non-profit electric 
associations were declared to be public utilities, placing them under the 
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission (Commission).  
 
1983 – Cooperative electric associations were allowed to exempt themselves 
from Commission regulation by majority vote of their members and consumers. 
Municipal utilities were also exempted from Commission regulation.  
 
1983 – The General Assembly authorized the Commission to pursue civil actions 
against electric utilities.  
 
1992 – The Commission was given the power to flexibly regulate electric utilities 
by approving or denying applications for special rate contracts. Utilities were 
prohibited from subsidizing such contracts by raising the rates of other regulated 
utility operations.  
 
1992 – The federal government enacted the Federal Energy Policy Act of 1992, 
requiring open access of investor-owned electric transmission lines. The act also 
prohibited the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) from regulating 
retail wheeling, leading many to conclude that states could now regulate retail 
wheeling.  
 
