 
 
22 | P a g e 
1998 – The 21-member Colorado Electricity Advisory Panel (CEAP) was created 
to assess whether retail competition in the electricity market would benefit the 
state’s consumers.  
 
1999 – CEAP issued its final report, which concluded that restructuring Colorado’s 
electricity market to enable retail competition would not be in the best interests 
of consumers.  
 
1999 – The Commission promulgated rules requiring investor-owned utilities to 
itemize the fuel sources of their generated and purchased electricity. Consumer 
bills were required to itemize fuel and delivery costs.  
 
2001 – The General Assembly directed the Commission to give full consideration 
to clean energy and energy efficient technologies when examining jurisdictional 
utilities’ resource selection plans. 
 
2004 – The people of Colorado approved Amendment 37, which required all 
utilities serving over 40,000 customers to meet certain renewable energy 
standards by certain identified dates. 
 
2006 – The General Assembly directed the Commission to consider proposals by 
jurisdictional utilities to propose, fund and construct integrated gasification 
combined cycle electric generation plants, as opposed to subjecting such 
projects to the Commission’s bidding rules. 
 
2007 – The General Assembly doubled the renewable energy standards delineated 
in Amendment 37 and expanded the number and types of utilities that would be 
required to meet a new set of targets. 
 
2007 – The General Assembly authorized the Commission to permit jurisdictional 
utilities to engage in differential ratemaking for low-income customers. 
 
2007 – The General Assembly mandated that jurisdictional utilities more 
aggressively participate in demand-side management activities. 
 
2010 – The General Assembly increased the renewable energy standard for 
investor-owned utilities from 20 percent to 30 percent.  It also added a three 
percent carve-out for distributed generation, half of which is for generation 
behind-the-meter, such as rooftop solar. 
 
2010 – The General Assembly authorized the development of community solar 
gardens which are solar facilities that can be owned or subscribed to on a 
cooperative basis. 
 
2010 – The Clean Air-Clean Jobs Act mandated the early retirement of several 
investor-owned utility coal-fired generation units that were replaced primarily 
