 
 
23 | P a g e 
by natural gas-fired generation and the addition of new emissions controls on 
several of the remaining coal-fired generation units. 
 
2016 – The Governor re-designated the PUC as the state agency tasked with 
Emergency Support Function #12, which covers energy, meaning the PUC assists 
the Colorado Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, as well 
as the Federal Emergency Management Administration, when there is an 
emergency.  Importantly, this function is statewide, meaning it reaches beyond 
those utilities falling within the Commission’s regulatory jurisdiction. 
 
2017 – The Mountain West Transmission Group (MWTG) consisting of two 
cooperatives, four investor-owned utilities, one municipal utility, one Colorado 
power authority, and two divisions of a federal power administration, that 
together serve loads in Colorado, Wyoming, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and 
Montana, announced their intent to join the Southwest Power Pool (SPP) which 
is a regional transmission organization and both a real-time and day-ahead 
market in a 14-state region of the Midwest. 
 
2018 – A major Colorado investor-owned utility announced its withdrawal from 
MWTG’s effort to join the SPP. 
 
2019 – The Commission sunset bill was amended to require utilities to develop 
clean energy plans that target 80 percent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 
by 2030 and 100 percent reduction by 2050, relative to 2005 emissions.  That 
same year, the General Assembly also required regulated utilities to file with the 
Commission transportation electrification plans. 
 
2023 – The Commission approved the first transportation electrification plans.  
Additionally, the General Assembly enacted legislation to address best value 
employment metrics, which are intended to ensure that energy development by 
regulated utilities is performed by a qualified Colorado workforce.  Additionally, 
House Bill 23-1039 required specified utilities to file resource adequacy reports 
to address a five-year forecast of customer load, planning reserve margin and 
supply and demand side resources expected to be available to serve that 
anticipated load.   
 
2024 – Senate Bill 24-218 built upon earlier work on electric distribution system 
planning by requiring qualifying utilities to upgrade their electric distribution 
systems to support the state’s beneficial electrification, transportation 
electrification and decarbonization goals and to facilitate air quality standards.  
In 
addition, 
the 
Commission 
approved 
the 
first 
demand 
side 
management/beneficial electrification plans, coordinating energy savings, 
greenhouse gas reductions and equity targets across electric and gas programs.  
Finally, the Commission updated its rules relating to community solar gardens to 
include interconnection requirements for community solar garden developers, 
