 
 
24 | P a g e 
bill credit options for customers and equity considerations for disparately 
impacted communities. 
 
2025 – The PUC and the state’s two investor-owned electric utilities began work 
on wildfire mitigation planning to address planning and investment in 
infrastructure to increase resiliency and reduce the risk associated with wildfires.  
Additionally, the General Assembly revised the statutes surrounding utilities’ 
ability to offer economic development rates to encourage new economic 
development and to decrease utility rates for other customers by spreading some 
system costs across loads that would not otherwise have located in Colorado. 
 
NATURAL GAS 
 
The following timeline outlines significant regulation milestones related to natural gas 
utilities: 
 
1983 – The General Assembly authorized the Commission to pursue civil actions 
against gas utilities. 
 
1992 – The Commission was given the power to flexibly regulate gas utilities by 
approving or denying applications for special rate contracts. Utilities were 
prohibited from subsidizing such contracts by raising the rates of other regulated 
utility operations. 
 
1992 – FERC Order 636 fully implemented previous requirements that interstate 
gas pipelines provide gas suppliers non-discriminatory open access to 
transmission facilities. 
 
1996 – The General Assembly authorized a study to assess whether retail 
competition in the natural gas market would benefit the state’s consumers. 
 
1999 – The General Assembly authorized, but did not require, natural gas utilities 
that demonstrated, among other things, that at least five other natural gas 
companies could offer service to customers in their respective service territories, 
to engage in retail competition. If such a situation arises, the Commission was 
authorized to promulgate rules to implement the transition to competition and 
to, among other things, establish standards of conduct. 
 
2001 – The General Assembly directed the Commission to investigate the natural 
gas acquisition practices of jurisdictional natural gas utilities with the aim of 
ensuring greater long-term price stability for consumers. 
 
2007 – The Commission approved, for the first time, an investor-owned utility’s 
proposal for partial revenue decoupling, thereby reducing the utility’s 
disincentive to encourage conservation. 
