 
 
25 | P a g e 
2017 – The Commission approved updated line extension policies for allocating 
the cost of providing new gas service to increase the simplicity, transparency 
and predictability of line extension costs for gas and electric customers. 
 
2021 – House Bill 21-1238 required each regulated gas utility to submit to the 
Commission a demand side management strategic issues plan to serve as 
platforms for the establishment of specific demand side management objectives, 
including setting energy savings targets, goals and financial incentive 
mechanisms.  Senate Bill 21-264 required gas utilities with more than 90,000 
retail customers to develop, file and receive approval of clean heat plans 
designed to achieve greenhouse gas emission reduction, the goal of which is to 
implement a performance standard that will allow gas utilities to use available 
tools, including energy efficiency, biomethane, hydrogen, recovered methane, 
beneficial electrification of customer end uses, cost-effective leak reductions on 
the utilities’ distribution systems and other measures to achieve greenhouse gas 
emissions reductions, cost-effectiveness and equity.  Finally, the Commission 
adopted gas infrastructure planning rules to gain insight into gas utilities’ future 
projects and expenditures.  The rules incorporated general system planning as 
well as recovery of system safety and integrity investments and covered clean 
heat planning, gas energy efficiency planning and gas infrastructure planning. 
 
2023 – New legislation required the Commission to remove incentives for gas 
service to properties and provided that gas utilities do not provide applicants for 
service an incentive, including line extension allowances, to establish gas service 
at a property.  Additionally, the General Assembly required gas utilities to 
establish gas price risk mitigation plans to establish a maximum per-month fuel 
rate tariff that accounts for price fluctuations based on seasonality and that 
protects customers from price hikes and extraordinary pricing events. Finally, 
following the experience of Winter Storm Uri in 2022, the General Assembly 
enacted Senate Bill 23-291, which required the Commission to set a ceiling for 
gas prices to help insulate customers from extremely high prices. 
 
STEAM 
 
The following timeline outlines significant regulation milestones related to steam 
utilities: 
 
1983 – The General Assembly authorized the Commission to pursue civil actions 
against steam utilities. 
 
1989 – The General Assembly authorized the Commission to authorize steam 
utilities to negotiate contracts with specific customers within their respective 
service territories. Utilities were prohibited from subsidizing such contracts by 
raising the rates of other regulated utility operations. 
 
