 
 
26 | P a g e 
1992 – The General Assembly directed the Commission to flexibly regulate steam 
utilities by approving or denying applications for special rate contracts. 
 
2015 – The Commission approved a steam resource plan which granted Colorado’s 
only investor-owned steam utility permission to shut down its aging Zuni plant in 
Denver’s Sun Valley neighborhood and granted a request to expand the capacity 
of the thermal plant located near Denver’s Union Station. 
 
2022 – The Commission began evaluating the long-term future of the state’s sole 
steam system by focusing on the utility’s upcoming investments, operations and 
cost-recovery mechanisms and evaluating how steam services are planned, 
managed and financed.  The final resource plan, adopted in 2024, included a 
commitment to follow-up with more studies and modeling in the future. 
 
GEOTHERMAL 
 
In 1983, the General Assembly authorized the creation of geothermal heat suppliers, 
requiring such utilities to obtain operating permits from the Commission.  Only one 
geothermal heat supplier has ever been granted an operating permit from the 
Commission.  That permit was issued in 2012 and expired in 2017 without ever having 
been operationalized. 
 
House Bill 23-1281 required the Commission to determine whether its rules or additional 
legislative changes are needed to facilitate developing thermal energy in the state. 
 
In 2024, the Commission approved a project to explore opportunities for neighborhood-
scale alternative energy projects with the requirement that geothermal solutions be 
included among the alternatives explored. 
 
HYDROGEN 
 
House Bill 23-1281 required the Commission to develop rules to establish clean hydrogen 
energy project requirements.  These efforts are on-going. 
 
Pipeline Safety 
 
The following timeline outlines significant regulation milestones related to gas pipeline 
safety: 
 
1970 – The General Assembly specifically authorized the PUC to cooperate with 
other governmental agencies, including municipalities, regarding the safety of 
natural gas pipelines. Natural gas gathering lines, however, were exempted from 
this authority.  
 
1983 – The Commission was granted the authority to pursue civil actions against 
pipeline operators. 
