 
 
28 | P a g e 
specifically those in high-cost areas, would have access to reliable basic universal voice 
service at affordable rates. The HCSM is funded by the customers who pay a monthly 
2.6 percent surcharge on intrastate retail revenue to telecommunications providers.  
 
In 2014, the Commission’s oversight over the telecommunications industry was 
substantially transformed. House Bills 14-1329, 1330 and 1331 reclassified basic local 
exchange services from regulated telecommunications services as exempt from 
regulation, with certain exceptions for geographic areas that received state high-cost 
fund support. 
 
Despite this deregulation, the Commission’s activity related to telecommunications 
service has not been eliminated. Certificates of Public Necessity and Convenience, 
while optional for most telecommunications providers, are still requested by providers 
and issued by the Commission, and the Commission has regulatory responsibilities 
regarding 
numbering, 
switched 
access, 
certifying 
companies 
as 
Eligible 
Telecommunications Carriers, and oversight of Basic Emergency Service (the 9-1-1 
network). Additionally, the Commission has been tasked by the legislature with specific 
telecommunications-related programs, including collection and distribution of 9-1-1, 9-
8-8, and Telephone Disability Access surcharges and oversight of penal communications 
services. The Commission also has limited oversight of emergency telephone charge 
rates set by local 9-1-1 governing bodies, and it has the authority to audit providers 
regarding the collection and remittance of those local charges. 
 
In 2020, House Bill 20-1293 created a 9-1-1 surcharge, assessed on a statewide basis, to 
supplement local emergency telephone charges authorized in section 29-11-102, C.R.S. 
This legislation tasked the Commission with establishing the annual 9-1-1 surcharge 
rate, setting the threshold above which local emergency telephone charge rates 
required Commission approval, and gave the Commission audit authority over not only 
the remittance of the state 9-1-1 surcharge but of local emergency telephone charges, 
as well. 
 
Additionally, Senate Bill 21-154 established the 9-8-8 Crisis Hotline Enterprise within 
the Behavioral Health Administration and authorized the enterprise to assess a fee, 
which is now collected by the PUC and remitted to the enterprise on a monthly basis. 
This bill also granted the PUC the authority to conduct audits related to the collection 
and remittance of this fee. 
 
Also in 2021, House Bill 21-1201 imposed reporting requirements on penal 
communications service providers, requiring quarterly reporting to the Commission on 
fees imposed upon incarcerated individuals and their families. This bill also required 
providers to post on their website information regarding how to file complaints with 
the PUC, and it directed the PUC to conduct biannual testing of the telecommunications 
systems provided to incarcerated individuals at all state and local carceral facilities in 
Colorado. Additionally, this bill defined penal communications service providers as 
public utilities. House Bill 23-1133 expanded the definition of penal communications 
services to include video and electronic mail or messaging. 
