 
 
30 | P a g e 
1971 – The General Assembly placed towing carriers within Commission 
jurisdiction.  
 
1980 - The General Assembly removed ash and trash motor vehicle carriers from 
Commission jurisdiction.  
 
1984 – The General Assembly declared carriers of household goods to fall within 
the scope of public interest and subject to safety and insurance requirements.  
 
1985 – The General Assembly exempted charter/scenic bus, courier, luxury 
limousine, and off-road scenic charter motor vehicle carriers from regulation as 
public utilities but required them to register and have adequate insurance and 
comply with Commission safety requirements.  
 
1986 – The General Assembly placed transportation of hazardous materials by 
motor vehicle within Commission jurisdiction. 
 
1994 – Senate Bill 94-113 relaxed the market entry requirement for taxicab 
companies in Colorado’s 11 largest counties. As a result, instead of having a 
regulated monopoly, taxicab companies in these counties have regulated 
competition. This means that permit applicants no longer had to prove that 
existing service was substantially inadequate. Instead, they only had to show the 
need for service and their fitness to provide the service. An intervener could 
then show that destructive competition would result and the applicant would 
then have to prove that additional authority would not result in destructive 
competition.  
 
1995 – Federal regulation preempted state regulation of transportation utilities 
that carry property within state boundaries (intrastate). The Commission no 
longer regulated routes, rates, or services of intrastate property carriers and 
household movers.  
 
2003 – The General Assembly placed intrastate movers of household goods under 
the jurisdiction of the Commission and made them subject to regulation. Movers 
were required to provide estimates and contracts, meet safety standards, and 
comply with insurance, bonding or self-insurance requirements.  
 
2003 – The Highway Crossing Protection Fund, originally created in 1965 under 
the Highway Users Tax Fund to pay for the costs of installing, reconstructing, 
and improving safety signals or devices at crossings that are not covered by 
federal funds, was transferred to the Commission.  
 
2003 – Non-consensual towing rates by towing carriers, for vehicles less than 
10,000 pounds, fell under the jurisdiction of the Commission to prescribe 
minimum and maximum rates. In addition, the Commission could require 
