 
 
31 | P a g e 
financial statements or other information from carriers to determine costs 
associated with performing non-consensual tows.  
 
2006 – Directors, officers, owners and general partners of household goods 
moving companies and the drivers for some passenger carriers (charter or scenic 
bus, fire crew transport, luxury limousine, off-road scenic charter, children’s 
activity bus, and taxicab) were required to be fingerprinted for criminal history 
record checks.  
 
2006 – The Single State Registration System (SSRS) and Interstate Exempt 
Registration (bingo stamp) programs expired and were replaced by the federal 
Unified Carrier Registration (UCR) program. The UCR program manages the 
collection and distribution of registration and financial responsibility information 
provided and fees paid by for-hire and private motor carriers, brokers, freight 
forwarders, and leasing companies. 
 
2008 – As a result of a sunset review recommendation, an applicant for a taxicab 
operating authority no longer had to prove public need. Existing companies 
would have to prove that, if approved, adding an additional operating authority 
would harm the public.   
 
2013 – Senate Bill 13-189 created the Moving Outreach Fund which was created 
to educate consumers about their rights when dealing with movers. 
 
2014 – Colorado became the first state in the country to regulate transportation 
network companies. They were given broad exemptions to the laws that regulate 
motor carriers. 
 
2014 – The restriction prohibiting the Commission from regulating the rates of 
nonconsensual towing of vehicles weighing in excess of 10,000 pounds was 
repealed in House Bill 14-1031.    
 
2016 – The regulation of motor carriers that transport Medicaid patients began.  
 
2018 – Large-market taxis were deregulated to a great extent. A company 
providing large-market taxicab service must have at least 25 vehicles in its fleet 
unless it provides service in El Paso, Larimer, or Weld Counties. If it operates in 
those counties, it must have 10 vehicles in its fleet. 
 
2019 – The regulation of vehicle booting companies began by way of Senate Bill 
19-236. 
 
2020 - The regulation of carriers transporting hazardous/nuclear materials was 
removed from the Commission and reassigned to the Colorado Department of 
Transportation in Senate Bill 20-118.  
 
