 
 
33 | P a g e 
2025 – Senate Bill 25-162 placed the Office of Rail Safety within the PUC and 
established a new fee to cover costs associated with implementation. 
 
Water 
 
The five water utilities currently regulated by the Commission do not serve more than 
1,500 households. The Commission’s regulatory oversight, in each case, resulted from 
a complaint brought by customers receiving potable water from the company in 
question.  Rates were already in place and in several instances the companies’ proposed 
dramatic increases in rates “triggered” the complaint to the Commission.  The following 
timeline outlines when the five water utilities came under Commission jurisdiction: 
 
1996 – The first water utility came under the regulatory authority of the 
Commission. 
 
 
1999 – An additional water utility came under the regulatory authority of the 
Commission. 
 
2006 – Two additional water utilities came under the regulatory authority of the 
Commission. 
 
2007 – The final water utility came under the regulatory authority of the 
Commission. 
 
In 2018, Senate Bill 18-134 deregulated water companies that are registered as non-
profits as long as their rates, charges and terms and conditions of service are just and 
reasonable. The PUC retains the right to entertain a complaint of unjust or 
unreasonable rates and may take remedial action.   
 
 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth, fifth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent;  
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
