 
 
34 | P a g e 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether 
regulation is set at the appropriate level and whether the current laws are impeding or 
enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public interest. 
 
Federal Laws 
 
The breadth and complexity of public utility regulation necessitates a network of 
federal laws to coordinate regulatory efforts among the states. Some significant federal 
legislation in the realm of public utilities includes, but is not limited to: 
 
The Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 and the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline 
Safety Act of 1979 authorized the U.S. Department of Transportation's 
(USDOT’s) Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (PHMSA) to 
regulate pipeline transportation and storage of natural gases, and hazardous 
liquids, respectively.16 
 
The Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) pioneered promotion 
of energy conservation and fostered the development of renewable energy 
sources by non-utility power producers.17 
 
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 paved the way for the deregulation of 
telecommunications services, including local and long distance telephone, cable, 
and broadcast services, by allowing communications businesses to compete 
against each other in any market.18 
 
The Unified Carrier Registration Act of 2005 eliminated the Single State 
Registration System (SSRS) for motor carriers and authorized the Unified Carrier 
Registration System, which established standard guidelines for motor carrier 
registration and fees.19 
 
The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT) set forth a research and development 
program encompassing a broad range of topics, including energy efficiency; 
 
16 Congressional Research Service. DOT’s Federal Pipeline Safety Program: Background and Issues for Congress. 
Retrieved August 25, 2025, from https://www.congress.gov/crs-product/R44201 
17 Bureau of Reclamation. Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. Retrieved August 25, 2025, from 
https://www.usbr.gov/power/legislation/purpa.pdf 
18 Federal Communications Commission. Telecommunications Act of 1996. Retrieved August 25, 2025, from 
https://www.fcc.gov/general/telecommunications-act-1996 
19 Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. What is the Unified Carrier Registration (UCR) System and How Do I 
Sign Up? Retrieved October 10, 2025, from https://www.fmcsa.dot.gov/faq/what-unified-carrier-registration-ucr-
system-and-how-do-i-sign 
