 
 
47 | P a g e 
and railroad safety crossings; and considering uncontested applications, as well as 
applications to discontinue service, transfer assets, or make changes to existing tariffs. 
Commissioners may also, at their discretion, schedule “deliberative meetings” for more 
in-depth discussion of issues that would normally be handled at a weekly meeting. 
Commission meetings are open to the public and must be given full and timely notice 
pursuant to Colorado’s open meetings law. 
 
Since March 2003, the Commission has been broadcasting audio and video of its 
meetings live over the internet. Starting in 2023, the Commission began broadcasting 
meetings over YouTube. All meetings are available live and are archived for future 
viewing. The majority of the Commission’s meetings are held virtually. Once a month, 
the Commission holds an in-person weekly meeting, at which the Commission allows for 
both virtual and in-person public comments. 
 
The Commission may host informational sessions on emerging topics related to public 
utilities and hold town hall meetings around the state to solicit feedback from utility 
customers. 
 
The staff of the Commission is responsible for carrying out the agency’s regulatory 
activities, which include: 
 
• Evaluating applications,  
• Issuing permits and registrations,  
• Conducting financial and engineering plans and analyses,  
• Performing inspections and audits,  
• Resolving complaints between consumers and utilities, and  
• Enforcing compliance with Commission statutes and rules. 
 
 
Funding 
 
The Commission is cash funded: regulated utilities themselves pay annual fees to 
finance the Commission’s regulatory activities. 
 
Every year, fixed utilities must report any gross intrastate annual operating revenues 
to the Department of Revenue (DOR).141 The Executive Director of DOR computes the 
amount of fees required to be paid by each utility to cover the administrative costs 
associated with regulation based on a percentage of their reported revenues.142  DOR 
cannot require a telecommunications company to pay more than 0.2 percent of its gross 
intrastate utility operating revenues and cannot require any other utility to pay more 
than 0.25 percent.  Each utility pays the total fee to the DOR in equal quarterly 
installments.143 
 
141 § 40-2-111, C.R.S 
142 § 40-2-112(1), C.R.S. 
143 § 40-2-113, C.R.S. 
