 
 
49 | P a g e 
operations of the PUC and implementing its policies and decisions.146 Because of the 
large scope of utilities and the complexity of the Commission’s regulatory activities, 
the Director employs professionals with specific expertise, including engineers, 
economists, and financial analysts. The Director also employs ALJs and support staff to 
help fulfill the Commission’s quasi-judicial role. 
 
The office of the Director also includes an operations manager, an affordability program 
manager, a program assistant and an executive assistant, for a total of 4.0 full-time 
equivalent (FTE) employees.  
 
Also reporting to the Director is the Research and Emerging Issues unit with 5.0 FTE. 
This unit works directly with Commissioners, conducting research on topics related to 
utility regulation.  
 
There also exists the Commission’s Communications Manager and the External Affairs 
unit, which uses 5.0 FTE. This unit resolves complaints between customers and 
regulated entities and informs the public about Commission decisions and ratepayer 
issues via community outreach. 
 
Three deputy directors and the Chief ALJ, who report to the Director, oversee the 
following sections:  
 
• Public Safety.  This section includes the following units: 
 
o The Transportation unit (15.0 FTE) regulates the affordability and 
availability of motor carriers transporting passengers for hire. The unit 
conducts inspections, ensures rates and service meet acceptable 
standards, and issues permits.  
 
o The Rail and Transit unit (6.0 FTE) is responsible for regulatory activities 
relating to rail utilities. This unit conducts on-site safety inspections, 
accident investigations, and audits.  
 
o The Gas Pipeline Safety unit (12.0 FTE) ensures the safety of gas pipelines, 
by conducting gas pipeline safety inspections and accident investigations.  
 
• Fixed Utilities. This section includes the following units: 
 
o The Energy unit (12.0 FTE) is responsible for regulatory activities relating 
to electric, gas, water, and steam utilities. Its responsibilities include 
conducting gas volume and compliance audits, producing energy supply 
and demand forecasts, and ensuring rates and service meet acceptable 
standards.  
 
 
146 § 40-2-103(1), C.R.S. 
