 
 
50 | P a g e 
o The Economics unit (10.0 FTE) performs economic analysis of all 
regulated utilities.  
 
• Policy and Research Support.  This section includes the following units:  
 
o The Telecommunications unit (8.0 FTE) is responsible for retail and 
wholesale telecommunications regulatory activities, including evaluating 
rates and conducting financial and engineering analyses. The 
Telecommunications unit also administers the Telecom Relay Service, the 
Colorado High Cost Support Mechanism, the 911 Taskforce and statewide 
numbering including 9-8-8 services. 
 
o The Commission Advisors (10.0 FTE) provide recommendations, policy 
analysis, and technical training to Commissioners and ALJs.  
 
o The Administrative Support unit (2.0 FTE) is responsible for business 
system administration, decision editing, management of the Commission’s 
agendas, minutes, noticing, and administrative support. 
 
o Administrative Hearings.  This section (12. 0 FTE) consists of ALJs, legal 
assistants, and certified court reporters. The section is responsible for 
conducting hearings and issuing recommended decisions.  
 
Because of the sophisticated technical knowledge many regulatory activities require, 
the Commission’s decision-makers—the Commissioners and ALJs—rely on staff subject 
matter experts—such as engineers, economists, and financial analysts—for guidance in 
adjudicated proceedings. It would be improper for a staff member who drafted a formal 
complaint against a utility to provide information affecting the complaint’s disposition 
to the decision-makers. To address this potential conflict of interest, an important 
distinction is made between trial staff and advisory staff in contested proceedings: 
 
• Trial staff advocates for specific positions in litigated proceedings. Trial staff 
are prohibited from advising decision-makers on issues relevant to that 
proceeding. 
 
• Advisory staff provides subject-matter expertise, technical advice, and options 
to decision-makers. 
 
The Director designates which staff members will serve as trial and advisory staff.147  
 
 
 
 
 
 
147 4 CCR § 723-1-1007(a), Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
