 
 
51 | P a g e 
Formal Proceedings 
 
A formal adjudication before the Commission is called a proceeding. Each proceeding 
—which can be related to an application or petition, formal complaint, advice 
letter/tariff filing, or rulemaking—is assigned a unique number that it retains from 
inception to resolution. This allows staff to keep track of responses and testimony for 
complex matters that may stretch over a period of many months. There may be more 
than one decision for a single proceeding and often there are a number of related 
decisions for a specific proceeding prior to it being finally closed. These final written 
decisions made by Commissioners and ALJs form the core of the agency’s work. 
 
Table 3 shows the number of decisions issued by Commissioners and ALJs over the five 
calendar years indicated. 
 
 
 
Despite a slight decrease during the COVID-19 pandemic, the total number of 
Commission decisions remained relatively stable throughout the period examined.  
 
 
The Commission can refer rulemaking and adjudicatory matters to ALJs for initial 
review and analysis, although it may elect to hear a matter itself.148 If a matter is 
referred to an ALJ, the ALJ issues a recommended decision, which they transmit to the 
Commission. Upon review, the Commission may adopt, modify, or reject the findings of 
fact or conclusions of the recommended decision.149 
 
Contested proceedings that are held before the Commission or an ALJ are held “on the 
record.”  They are conducted in compliance with Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, 
section 40-6-101, C.R.S., et seq., and Part 1 of the Commission’s Rules and Regulations. 
All hearings are recorded by a court reporter. In the event of an appeal or exceptions 
filed to a recommended decision, the requesting party must order the appropriate 
transcripts, which become part of the record. 
 
Rulemaking proceedings are a critical function of the Commission. The Commission is 
charged with promulgating rules to enforce all aspects of Title 40, C.R.S.  Changes in 
federal or state laws, evolving perspectives on energy policy, technological advances, 
and a multitude of other issues can precipitate a rulemaking proceeding. 
 
 
148 § 40-6-101(2)(b), C.R.S. 
149 § 40-6-109(2), C.R.S. 
