 
 
54 | P a g e 
In 2021, six transportation cases were suspended. These all related to entities involved 
in medical transportation. Regulation of these entities was transferred to the 
Department of Health Care Policy and Financing, hence the suspension of their existing 
cases with the Commission. 
 
 
Licensing 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
In General 
 
One of the primary functions of the Commission is to authorize companies to provide 
service as public utilities. Such authority is granted via one of the following documents. 
 
• Companies 
seeking 
to 
provide 
gas, 
electric, 
water, 
or 
regulated 
telecommunications services (pursuant to Part 2 of Article 15 of Title 40, C.R.S.) 
must first secure a Commission order stating the present or future public 
convenience and necessity requiring such service. This order, a certificate of 
public convenience and necessity (CPCN), grants a company the right to provide 
specific services to customers in a defined geographical region.153 
 
• Motor carriers seeking to operate as common carriers 154 — meaning those 
intending to provide transportation indiscriminately to all customers, such as 
TNCs —must also apply for a CPCN.155  Those seeking to operate as contract 
carriers—for example, someone wishing to operate an employee shuttle bus for 
a certain company—apply for a contract carrier permit.156 
 
In addition to the request for initial authority to provide utility service, companies must 
apply to the Commission for a variety of other reasons. These reasons vary considerably 
across each industry, but typical applications for fixed utilities include those to amend 
or transfer a CPCN; to change the boundaries of a service area; to implement a change 
in tariffs outside the timeline dictated by statute; to change, extend, or discontinue 
any service or facility; to issue securities for the purpose of funding a long-term capital 
project; and to approve a refund plan or resource plan. Typical applications for contract 
and common carriers include those for a temporary, emergency, or seasonal authority; 
and to suspend or abandon a CPCN. 
 
153 § 40-5-102, C.R.S. 
154 § 40-1-102(3)(a), C.R.S. 
155 § 40-10.1-101(2), C.R.S. 
156 § 40-10.1-101(6), C.R.S 
