 
 
55 | P a g e 
Most applications submitted by fixed utilities and motor carriers follow essentially the 
same process. 
 
1. Entity files an application. Applicants file required documentation with the 
Commission either via a legal pleading or using forms provided by the PUC. The 
Rules for each utility type specify the required documentation. 
 
2. Application is logged and posted. Intake staff logs the application, assigns it a 
proceeding number, and processes it through the PUC’s E-filings System. The 
required notice period varies depending on the type of application but is typically 
15 to 30 days. Securities filings, considered business-critical because of potential 
fluctuation in interest rates, are placed on a particularly accelerated time 
schedule: the Commission must issue a decision on the application within 30 days 
of receipt.157 
 
3. During the notice period, interested parties apply for intervention. An 
intervention occurs when a person or entity with an interest in the outcome of 
the proceeding seeks to become part of a docketed matter. There are two types 
of interventions: 
 
a. Interventions as of right occur when a party has a legally protected right 
that might be affected by the proceeding. 158  PUC staff can intervene by 
right in any proceeding.159 The Colorado Office of the Utility Consumer 
Advocate (UCA) and the Colorado Energy Office can intervene by right in 
energy proceedings. 
b. Requests for permissive interventions must be evaluated by the 
Commission on a case-by-case basis and may be granted or denied.160 
 
4. Application is assigned to an analyst with the appropriate expertise. PUC staff 
include individuals with a broad range of professional and technical expertise, 
including engineers, network and information technology specialists, economists, 
accountants, and financial analysts. 
 
5. Analyst determines whether application is complete. If, while reviewing the 
application, the analyst finds deficiencies, the analyst sends a letter to the 
applicant giving a timeframe for correction of the deficiencies. If the applicant 
does not cure the deficiencies within the specified timeframe, the analyst skips 
to Step 7 below, with the recommendation that the application be dismissed as 
incomplete. 
 
6. Analyst evaluates the application on its merits. Once the application is 
complete, the analyst determines whether the entity has the managerial, 
 
157 § 40-1-104(5), C.R.S. 
158 4 CCR § 723-1-1401(b), Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
159 4 CCR § 723-1-1401(d), Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
160 4 CCR § 723-1-1401(c), Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
