 
 
56 | P a g e 
technical and financial resources to support the authority being applied for. The 
applicant must also demonstrate there is a public need for the service. A complex 
application might be reviewed by several analysts. 
 
7. Analyst develops a recommendation for the Commissioners. If no substantive 
concerns remain after analysis of the application and any supplemental 
information provided by the filing party, and after review of any pleadings by 
other parties, the analyst may draft an order consistent with their 
recommendation. The analyst provides this draft order along with the analyst’s 
recommendation to the Commissioners and their counsel for discussion at their 
weekly meeting. However, if the analyst has substantive concerns about the 
application, they notify PUC advisory staff of their intent to intervene, then work 
closely with the Attorney General’s Office to develop the rationale for the 
intervention. In this situation, an advisory staff member assumes responsibility 
for advising the Commissioners on the application. 
 
8. Commissioners decide on the application at a weekly meeting. The analyst or 
the advisory staff member shares their recommendation and draft order with the 
Commissioners during their weekly meeting. 
 
a. If an application is complete and uncontested, the Commission may 
waive the hearings process and adopt an order issuing the authority at its 
weekly business meeting.  
b. If the application is contested and the Commission determines a 
hearing is necessary, then the Commission will issue a decision setting 
the matter for hearing. The applicant and all intervening parties including 
PUC staff, may present testimony and have the right to cross-examine 
witnesses. In high-profile cases or those addressing broad policy issues, 
the Commission may elect to preside over the hearing. In all other cases, 
the Commission will refer the matter to an ALJ. In referred cases, the ALJ 
will issue a recommended decision, which the Commission may affirm, 
amend, or reject. If the Commission takes no affirmative action on a 
recommended decision, it will become a Commission decision by 
operation of law. 
 
9. The Commission adopts an order granting or denying the authority. The order 
may include a formal CPCN or it may simply grant the utility the authority to do 
something. The order lays out any terms and conditions of the authority (e.g., 
the applicant must provide tariffs or proof of insurance by a specified date). 
Staff will verify that the terms and conditions of the order have been met. 
 
Table 6 shows the number and type of applications the Commission evaluated over the 
five calendar years indicated. 
 
 
 
