 
 
59 | P a g e 
When an entity wants to construct a crossing of one of the 23 railroads in Colorado, it 
must apply to the Commission with all required engineering and safety specifications. 
The PUC then provides guidance on the design. Table 9 shows the number of railroad 
intersection applications filed with the Commission during the calendar years indicated. 
 
 
 
The table above demonstrates fluctuations in the total number of rail crossing 
applications received per year. The total number of applications submitted depends 
largely upon the number of projects implemented by the railroads, or local and state 
government entities per year. Additionally, with the limited contact and required social 
distancing which occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a backlog of 
projects that occurred which created the need for further inspection safety diagnostics 
and stalled the implementation of a variety of projects.   
  
As a part of the application process, PUC staff perform inspections when there is an 
issue concerning the safety of the intersection.  Inspection data are included in the 
“Inspections” section below.  
 
Pipeline Safety 
 
The federal Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) in the U.S. 
Department of Transportation annually certifies each state agency that enforces 
pipeline safety within its state lines. The gas pipeline safety unit under the Commission 
has jurisdiction over intrastate gas pipelines. The unit is primarily concerned with 
whether the pipeline is designed, operated and maintained in a manner that protects 
public safety. 
 
The gas pipeline safety unit accomplishes this by inspecting pipeline operators. It is 
primarily concerned with: 
 
• Design, construction and repair; 
• Operations, such as procedures, processes and personnel qualifications; 
• Maintenance; 
• Risk management programs; and 
• Drug and alcohol programs. 
 
The PUC staff also provides training to pipeline operators. 
 
PHMSA requires the gas pipeline safety unit to be staffed with trained inspectors, and 
it requires the inspectors to attend multiple training sessions directed by the federal 
agency prior to being allowed to lead any inspections. 
