 
 
66 | P a g e 
 
 
Formal complaints can result in the Commission taking enforcement actions such as the 
imposition of civil penalties. 168  
 
The Commission has a duty to see that the provisions of the constitution and statutes 
affecting public utilities are:169 
 
enforced and obeyed and that violations thereof are promptly prosecuted 
and penalties due the state are recovered and collected, and to this end 
it may sue in the name of the people of the State of Colorado. Upon the 
request of the Commission, the Attorney General or the district attorney 
acting for the proper county or city and county shall aid in any 
investigation, hearing, or trial […] and institute and prosecute actions or 
proceedings for the enforcement of the constitution and statutes of this 
state affecting public utilities and persons subject to [the laws governing 
motor carriers] and for the punishment of all violations thereof. 
 
Common grounds for enforcement action include utilities over-collecting money from 
customers and utilities’ failure to file required documents such as annual reports. One 
enforcement action at the Commission’s disposal is to revoke a utility’s CPCN or 
registration, but in cases where hundreds if not thousands of customers would be 
affected, revoking a company’s CPCN may not be a viable option.  
 
Although the Commission can levy fines against fixed utilities, it has not done so since 
the General Assembly granted it administrative fining authority in 2008.  Rather than 
taking formal action against fixed utilities, PUC staff typically work closely with the 
regulated utility to bring it into compliance with the applicable laws and rules.  This 
approach generally minimizes the negative impact on ratepayers. 
 
Transportation 
 
The Commission has the ability to issue civil penalties to motor carriers who violate the 
provisions of regulation. A Civil Penalty Assessment Notice (CPAN) is issued when a 
motor carrier is found to have committed a violation. If the motor carrier pays the 
penalty within 10 days, the amount of the fine is lowered. Any fine may be appealed to 
an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) who will hold a hearing and render a decision 
regarding upholding or modifying the penalty or dismissing the case.  
 
 
168 4 CCR § 723-1-1302(b), Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
169 § 40-7-101, C.R.S. 
