 
 
67 | P a g e 
Table 18 lists the number and dollar amount of CPANs issued over the five calendar 
years indicated. 
 
 
 
The table indicates that there were steady increases in the number of CPANs issued and 
the total dollar amount assessed. During calendar year 2020, the number of CPANs 
significantly decreased due to staffing vacancies and the aftermath of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Since that time, the issuance of CPANs has gradually increased as more 
aggressive actions have been taken in recent years against consistently problematic 
carriers, as necessary. 
 
Pipeline Safety 
 
When pipeline safety violations are uncovered, several pipeline safety rule violations 
may be incorporated into an individual compliance action.   
 
An inspector issues a warning notice when they uncover a probable violation with no 
previous enforcement history and the violation poses a low risk to public safety, 
pipeline integrity or facility integrity. If a probable violation of the rules has a previous 
enforcement history or it poses a moderate to severe risk to public safety, pipeline 
integrity or facility integrity, a notice of probable violation will be issued to the pipeline 
operator.  
 
If an inspection, audit or investigation reveals that a pipeline operator’s plans or 
procedures are inadequate to ensure the safe operation of a pipeline or facility, a 
Notice of Amendment will be issued. Typically, a Notice of Amendment will be 
associated with a warning notice or notice of probable violation. The pipeline operator 
may need to correct an existing procedure immediately or in a specified amount of time 
in order to ensure pipeline safety.  
 
Alternatively, if violations are minor in nature, meaning they are administratively 
inadequate and pose low risk to public safety and pipeline integrity, a Request for 
Amendment may be issued. A Request for Amendment requires a pipeline operator to 
modify, edit or correct an existing procedure prior to the next scheduled review of the 
pipeline operator’s plans or procedures.  
 
Prior to the passage of House Bill 21-108, any notice of probable violations that were 
issued always contained a calculated and recommended civil penalty. The civil penalty 
was not always imposed on a pipeline operator since state law and federal policy 
