 
 
70 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
General 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Public Utilities Commission and schedule 
future sunset reviews to occur by industry sector. 
 
Regulation of public utilities in Colorado began as early as 1885. That year, the Railway 
Commission was established with the power to investigate railroad rates and charges. 
Then, in 1913, the Public Utility Act was passed. This created a three-member Public 
Utilities Commission (Commission) and abolished the State Railroad Commission. More 
than 100 years later, the Commission’s regulation of public utilities continues to be a 
crucial aspect in maintaining the livelihood and safety of Coloradans.  
 
The PUC broadly regulates the following five categories: energy, pipeline safety, 
telecommunications, water utilities, and transportation (including rail). Much of the 
Commission’s responsibilities across these areas focus on ensuring safe, dependable, 
and efficient services at rates that are just, reasonable, and not discriminatory. 
Pipelines are largely federally regulated; however, the PUC inspects and monitors 
intrastate gas pipeline system operators to ensure that, among other things, qualified 
operators meet minimum standards for pipeline safety.  
 
The Commission currently functions as a Type 1 entity housed in the Department of 
Regulatory Agencies and has varying degrees of regulatory authority over 2,633 
telecommunications, energy, transportation, and water entities and oversees 46,878 
miles of pipelines. For an investor-owned utility to provide service to the public, it must 
first apply to the Commission for a certificate of public convenience and necessity 
(CPCN). Commissioners determine whether there is a public need for the services being 
offered and whether applicants have the required qualifications and minimum financial 
resources to provide such services.  
 
Unlike most boards and commissions in Colorado, the position of a PUC Commissioner 
is a full-time position and consists of 40 hours or more per week. Commissioners are 
prohibited from holding outside employment. Due to the complex technical knowledge 
required, the Commissioners rely on staff who are primarily subject matter experts for 
guidance. The PUC hires engineers, economists, financial analysts and other 
professionals with specific expertise and carefully evaluates every CPCN application it 
receives. The director of the PUC manages staff and works closely with Commissioners 
to coordinate matters before the Commission. 
 
