 
 
72 | P a g e 
• Oversight of "Basic Emergency Service" provisions in section 40-15-201, C.R.S.;  
• Approval of Emergency Telephone Charges; and 
• Administration of the state’s 9-1-1 surcharge. 
 
Moreover, the PUC provides an avenue for members of the public to submit complaints. 
The Commission meets weekly, including one in-person meeting each month. Any 
member of the public is welcome to attend one of the weekly meetings, whether in 
person or remotely. Meetings are broadcast live and archived on the internet for future 
reference. 
 
A central purpose of this sunset review is to determine whether regulation is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. Clearly, the wide range of services 
public utilities provide highlights the need for effective regulation. Federal regulations 
vary significantly between different public utilities. Wherever federal regulation of 
utilities ends, the PUC can step in to fill the void and ensure the proper functioning of 
utilities, thereby protecting public health and safety. 
  
From a large power plant to a transportation company, from a pipeline running 
underground to a railroad crossing, the PUC helps ensure a wide range of companies, 
their products, and their services meet minimum safety and quality standards. 
Persistent complaints with a utility might be resolved with the PUC’s intervention. For 
some of these activities, the stakes are high. The failure to detect a leaky gas pipeline 
might result in injury and loss of life. Other activities may not have immediate 
consequences, but they still benefit Coloradans. Investigations into a power outage 
could prevent future outages or wildfires, for example. 
 
Public utilities commissions, or equivalents, exist in virtually every state. Without 
regulation, the public would not be expected to have sufficient expertise to navigate 
all of these areas appropriately. Given the time Commissioners dedicate to the PUC and 
the wide breadth of staff it employs, the PUC possesses the depth of expertise and 
knowledge necessary to act in the public interest. Moreover, the public utility sector is 
constantly evolving, sometimes more quickly than regulatory frameworks. It is 
challenging to predict what new technologies might emerge and disrupt the operations 
of public utilities within the next five years. Whether it is advancements in technology 
such as artificial intelligence, environmental changes, or changes in regulation by other 
government agencies, the existence of the PUC ensures that Coloradans will have an 
agency to intervene on their behalf if required. 
 
Through its licensing, inspection, enforcement, rulemaking, and rate-setting activities, 
the PUC helps to ensure that regulated utilities provide customers with reliable, 
responsive, and timely services. It also ensures that only qualified companies provide 
essential utility services to the public. If the PUC finds that a utility intentionally or 
negligently commits unsafe practices that violate the law, it can initiate regulatory 
enforcement, which may include revoking the utility’s operating authority and requiring 
the utility to make its customers whole. This clearly serves to protect the health, 
safety, and welfare of Coloradans.  
