 
 
73 | P a g e 
Colorado’s Constitution also underscores the need for public utility regulation. Article 
XXV, enacted in 1954, gives the General Assembly the power to designate a state agency 
to regulate public utilities in the state. As such, the Commission determines that the 
provisions of the constitution and statutes affecting public utilities are being correctly 
implemented. 
 
However, much has changed since the Railway Commission was created in 1885 and 
since the Commission itself was created in 1913.  Today, it is difficult to imagine an 
aspect of Colorado life that is not somehow touched by the PUC’s activities.  As 
Colorado has changed, so too has the PUC’s mandate.  While safe and reliable service 
continues to be a priority, issues such as affordability, equitable access, greenhouse 
gas emissions, and the stability of the state’s gas and electric infrastructure are topics 
of heated discussion.  
 
Similarly, the structure of the Commission itself was a popular topic of discussion during 
this sunset review.  These conversations addressed issues such as the appropriate 
number of commissioners, whether Commissioners should be appointed or elected, the 
length of the Commissioners’ terms of office and whether the Commission itself should 
include geographic representation.  Some of the recommendations that follow aim to 
address the issues raised in these discussions. 
 
Not surprisingly, many of the topics of discussion throughout this sunset review did not 
result in recommendations.  This, combined with the sheer number of recommendations 
that are included in this sunset report, illustrates the massive scope of the PUC itself 
and the resulting sunset report. 
 
It became apparent during this sunset review that the PUC is too large and multifaceted 
to conduct a thorough and helpful sunset review of the entire PUC. A new sunset 
schedule that accommodates the complexity of different sectors may lead to more 
effective regulatory reforms. 
 
The General Assembly should continue the PUC and schedule future sunset reviews as 
outlined in Table 21, below. 
 
