 
 
74 | P a g e 
This schedule is designed to facilitate future sunset reviews that delve more deeply 
into the various sectors regulated by the PUC, resulting in more comprehensive and 
more detailed sunset reports and recommendations to the General Assembly. 
 
The regulation of towing carriers is currently scheduled to repeal in 2030, with a sunset 
report due to the General Assembly in 2029.  Since towing is part of the transportation 
sector, including rail, that sector should be scheduled for repeal at the same time.  
Additionally, the number of transportation-related recommendations in this sunset 
report suggests that another sunset review should occur sooner rather than later. 
 
The regulation of the water and telecommunications sectors can be reviewed together, 
given their relatively small size, and should be scheduled for repeal in seven years, in 
2033.  The pipeline safety program should be scheduled for repeal two years after that, 
in 2035, which represents a nine-year continuation.  Given that the recommendations 
regarding these sectors are few and do not have significant policy implications, these 
are reasonable continuation periods. 
 
Finally, the energy sector should be scheduled for repeal in 2037, which is an 11-year 
continuation.  Given the number and magnitude of the recommendations in this sunset 
report, this may seem unjustified.  However, given the prevalence of recent legislation 
regarding energy, and the likelihood that such endeavors will continue, there is less 
need for a sunset review any sooner.  The General Assembly has and can continue to 
pass legislation regarding this critical sector at any time, without a sunset review.  
Additionally, conducting a sunset review amid constant statutory changes presents a 
unique set of challenges as newer provisions are being implemented.  Sunset reviews 
during such turbulent times can be of limited value. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should continue the Commission and 
schedule future sunset reviews in accordance with the schedule outlined above. 
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Permit the Commissioners to communicate with one 
another on adjudicatory matters outside of a public meeting, provided 
certain and specific safeguards are implemented. 
 
The Colorado Sunshine Act of 1972 (Open Meetings Law) states, 
 
All meetings of two or more members of any state public body at which 
any public business is discussed or at which any formal action may be 
taken are declared to be public meetings open to the public at all times. 
 
A state public body is defined, in pertinent part, as “any board, commission . . . to 
which the state . . . has delegated a governmental decision-making function[.]” 
 
A meeting is defined as “any kind of gathering, convened to discuss public business, in 
person, by telephone, electronically, or by other means of communication.” 
