 
 
75 | P a g e 
Thus, under the terms of the Open Meetings Law, the Commission is a state public body 
and any gathering of two or more Commissioners to discuss public business is a public 
meeting that must be open to the public.  This is a practice to which the Commission 
strictly adheres. 
 
The intent of the Open Meetings Law is to ensure that public business is transacted in 
public, open to public scrutiny and observation.  It is a laudable goal, but in the case 
of the Commission, it may impede the timeliness and quality of decision-making. 
 
Throughout the course of this sunset review, multiple stakeholders expressed 
frustration at the length of time it can take the Commission to make a decision on 
certain matters.  Some of this may be, at least in part, attributable to the Open 
Meetings Law requiring that substantive discussions among Commissioners about 
matters for decision be conducted only in open public meetings.  This requirement 
stymies brainstorming and discussion, as Commissioners are required to respond in real 
time to new proposals and may be reluctant or unprepared to talk through highly 
technical matters for fear of saying something that is “outside of the box” in an open 
public meeting. 
 
It may also inhibit the efficiency with which Commission decisions are drafted.  While 
one Commissioner may draft the decision for circulation to the other two, none can see 
the others’ comments.  Instead, if a Commissioner has a question about a drafted 
section or addition, the decision language would be discussed again publicly.  This 
makes for a lengthy and awkward drafting process. 
 
Additionally, if one Commissioner has an idea, the only time to raise it is in an open 
meeting.  This means that the other two Commissioners have insufficient time to think 
things through or to develop probing questions.  As a result, the matter must be brought 
back to a later public meeting to allow the other Commissioners time to consider and 
prepare their responses to the new idea.  Should another new idea arise at that 
subsequent meeting, that new idea also might need to be brought back to another 
public meeting, further delaying the proceedings. 
 
Thus, the Open Meetings Law may hamper creative solutions, or delay solutions to 
highly technical matters.  One solution is to mirror the process used by the New Mexico 
Public Regulation Commission.  Deliberations on adjudicatory proceedings are excepted 
from the state’s open meetings law.  However, these closed deliberations can only 
occur after the evidentiary record closes, only upon notice and can only include 
commissioners, their advisors and counsel.  According to PUC staff, many other 
commissions use variations of this process. 
 
This raises several legitimate concerns that the Open Meetings Law was intended to 
address, such as decisions being made outside of a public meeting.  The democratic 
principles of the United States generally frown upon such prospects, preferring instead 
to keep government open and transparent.  At the same time, the Commission has 
broad authority on increasingly complex matters.  Discussing ideas and seeking real-
