 
 
76 | P a g e 
time advice may be increasingly stifled if public deliberations delay determinations that 
must meet statutory deadlines. 
 
Thus, any efforts to allow the Commissioners to deliberate on adjudicatory matters 
outside of a public meeting must be accompanied by stringent safeguards. 
 
Commission decisions must be based on the record that is created during the course of 
a particular proceeding, and this should not change.  If the Commissioners are to be 
allowed to deliberate matters outside of a public meeting, then those deliberations 
should only be permitted once the full evidentiary record is established. 
 
In addition, any discussion not in public should be noticed.  Section 40-6-122, C.R.S., 
provides for ex parte communications between Commissioners and “interested persons” 
and requires that such communications be disclosed.  The disclosure must include, 
among other things: 
 
• 
Those involved in the communication, 
• 
The time and place of the communication, and 
• 
The subject matter of the communication. 
 
Similar disclosures should also be required of Commissioner-to-Commissioner 
communications to maintain at least a modicum of transparency.  These pre-
deliberation discussions should be limited to the Commissioners, their advisors and their 
counsel.  In this way, the Commissioners could discuss concepts and technical issues in 
depth, prior to a public deliberation. 
 
To that end, if the Commissioners are to be permitted to discuss a matter outside of a 
public meeting, including with any advisors or counsel, a subsequent public meeting 
should be required to capture their final reasoning and determination.  In this way, the 
noticed discussion of minute technical or other matters could be debated privately, but 
the ultimate determination, including any dissenting views, would be provided 
publicly.  The Commissioners should publicly confirm the basis for their determinations 
on the record, which would then be documented, as it is now, in a final decision 
reflecting the decisions made. 
 
To be sure, this is a dramatic departure from traditional notions of open meetings, but 
it is not entirely without precedent.  Appellate and supreme court justices often confer 
with one another after hearings have concluded.  While the Commission is certainly 
different from a traditional court, this limited exception balances the increasingly 
complex deliberative duties of the Commission with public transparency. 
 
Some may fear that one or two Commissioners might try to persuade the others to their 
point of view or make some kind of political deal.  While these fears have merit, the 
Commissioners being required to speak publicly about their decision after the private 
meeting should mitigate those concerns.  The safeguards outlined above, which would 
permit these discussions only after the evidentiary record closes; after notice has been 
