 
 
77 | P a g e 
given; limiting the discussions to the Commissioners, their advisors and their counsel 
and requiring public discussion prior to a final decision is issued, are intended to at 
least partially alleviate such fears. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether the regulation at issue is necessary to protect 
the public health, safety and welfare and the third asks whether the regulation is the 
least restrictive consistent with the public interest. 
 
While open meetings serve the public interest, in this case, they are overly 
restrictive.  The safeguards described above can help to alleviate some of the concerns 
that gave rise to the Open Meetings Law.  Further, the General Assembly should direct 
the Commission to use its rulemaking process, with its opportunities for input from all 
concerned parties, to fully establish the parameters of how such a process will work in 
practice. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should permit the Commissioners to 
communicate with one another outside of a public meeting for adjudicatory matters, 
consistent with the safeguards and directives outlined above. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Authorize PUC staff to send correspondence 
electronically and direct that it develop protocols to ensure security and to 
address when it will be used.   
 
The PUC has modernized many of its communication processes. Also, the vast majority 
of communication between PUC staff and external parties, such as regulated entities, 
intervenors and the public, occurs via electronic correspondence.   
 
However, there is still language in the statute that requires the PUC to communicate, 
in some instances, via mail.  This not only requires the expenditure of resources, but it 
also precludes the ability of the PUC to provide legal notice by email. 
 
The statute should be updated to reflect common communication practices, including 
authorizing electronic communication.  Clearly, the statute does not prohibit sending 
letters attached to an email, but the language does not authorize electronic 
correspondence only. 
 
Since email correspondence is widely utilized, the statute should be updated to allow 
electronic correspondence in all areas of the statute. Importantly, authorizing the 
utilization of electronic correspondence is permissive, not mandatory. The PUC may 
utilize first-class mail delivery if, for example, staff are unable to identify a current 
email address or as warranted by other circumstances.  
 
Even so, the PUC should establish protocols addressing the security of electronic 
correspondence as well as when electronic correspondence may be used. 
 
