 
 
78 | P a g e 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that 
the agency or the agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently 
and effectively. Authorizing electronic correspondence for all PUC communications will 
allow an additional option for communication and facilitate enhanced efficiency.  
 
As such, the General Assembly should authorize electronic communication for all PUC 
correspondence and direct the PUC to develop protocols regarding security and when 
it will be used.     
 
 
Administrative Recommendation 1 — The PUC should schedule proceedings 
so that they follow a logical cadence and order. 
 
In recent years, the General Assembly has enacted several changes related to energy. 
Among many others, are: 
 
• Senate Bill 19-077: Electric Motor Vehicles Public Utility Services 
• Senate Bill 19-236: Sunset Public Utilities Commission 
• Senate Bill 21-246: Electric Utility Promote Beneficial Electrification  
• Senate Bill 21-264: Adopt Programs Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions Utilities 
• House Bill 21-1238: Public Utilities Commission Modernize Gas Utility Demand-
side Management Standards 
• Senate Bill 23-198: Clean Energy Plans 
 
Senate Bill 19-077 required the Commission to establish a process to allow utilities to 
build facilities that support electric vehicles. Since implementation, companies have 
been submitting transportation-energy plans (TEPs) to the Commission for approval. 
 
Senate Bill 19-236 directed the Commission to create rules for investor-owned electric 
utilities to file distribution system plans (DSPs) regarding the utility's anticipated 
investments related to its distribution system. Plans must also discuss how distribution 
systems will support achievement of the state's decarbonization goals, along with 
implementation of federal, state, regional, and local air quality and decarbonization 
targets. 170 Utilities with more than 500,000 customers must file DSPs with the 
Commission every two years.171 
 
Senate Bill 21-246 directed the Commission to establish energy savings targets and to 
approve energy plans that promote the use of energy-efficient electric equipment in 
place of fossil-fuel-based systems. This, taken together with House Bill 21-1238, makes 
changes to existing demand-side management (DSM) policies of natural gas utilities. 
DSM refers to the planning, implementing, and monitoring activities of electric utilities 
 
170 Colorado Public Utilities Commission. Distribution System Plans. Retrieved September 20, 2025, from 
https://puc.colorado.gov/distribution-system-plans 
171 4 CCR § 723-3-3528, Rules Regarding Electric Utilities. 
