 
 
80 | P a g e 
the same policies universally, and analyze the impacts of these policies. The 
Commission must assess an individual filing on its own merits and still determine how 
it will impact the overall electric distribution system. When filings regarding the same 
issues proceed in such a piecemeal fashion, it is challenging to predict the ultimate, 
“behind-the-meter” effects on individuals who depend on that system. Moreover, lack 
of efficiencies across the Commission’s case load makes it difficult to expedite any 
individual proceeding. 
 
The PUC is still in the process of implementing many of these statutory changes and 
more will likely follow. Where possible, rather than being reactive to filings of utilities, 
the Commission should set a schedule of proceedings so that they follow a logical 
cadence and order. When the Commission determines a solution to properly establish 
the timing of proceedings, it can set an expectation for the utilities that it regulates.  
If statutory changes are needed to align the different submission and target dates, the 
Commission should seek legislation so that the General Assembly can help enshrine a 
proper schedule in statute.  
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial creation 
of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would 
warrant more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight. The fourth criterion 
questions whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent. The fifth sunset criterion asks whether the agency operates in the 
public interest and whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, 
rules, procedures, and practices and any other circumstances. The sixth criterion 
questions whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and effectively. 
And the fourteenth criterion asks whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
The Commission should seek to establish a schedule of proceedings so that they follow 
a logical cadence for the PUC, utilities and stakeholders. If legislation is required, the 
PUC should seek a change from the General Assembly to align required dates within 
each statute. Updating the cadence of proceedings into a more logical order will make 
it easier for the Commission to assess related filings and to allow for a more 
comprehensive and more efficient process. 
 
 
Administrative Recommendation 2 — The Commission should incorporate 
public comments into its decision-making process. 
 
Throughout this sunset review, a popular topic of conversation related to the extent to 
which the Commission and its various proceedings are accessible to the public. While 
the regulated utilities and various interest groups may have a relatively easy time 
participating in proceedings before the Commission, the same cannot be said for the 
typical Coloradan or organizations less familiar with the PUC. 
 
