 
 
81 | P a g e 
The PUC has worked to encourage public participation, prompted in part by the equity 
requirements in SB21-272. Indeed, certain high profile and impactful proceedings have 
received hundreds of public comments and strong engagement at comment hearings. 
Despite these efforts, the complex and formal, legalistic nature of much of the PUC’s 
work makes it an intimidating and confusing entity to engage with. Although certain 
proceedings are formally binding and appealable to the courts, necessitating a certain 
degree of formality and adherence to the rules of evidence, there is value in ongoing 
efforts to welcome and incorporate input from the public in decisions rendered by the 
Commission. 
 
The seventh sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people it regulates. 
 
As such, the Commission should continue to strive to incorporate public comments in 
its decision-making process and to hear from diverse voices. Doing so will empower 
consumers to be engaged in the decision-making process and build greater 
understanding of the work of the Commission and its impact on Coloradans. 
 
Energy 
 
Recommendation 4 — Modernize certain energy statutes for transparency and 
clarity, and to remove redundant requirements.  
 
Many of the industries regulated by the Commission continue to evolve and change over 
time.  This is certainly true for the energy sector.  This recommendation contains 
several parts, all offered as part of a concerted effort to modernize processes, clarify 
certain inconsistencies and to improve transparency. 
 
Recommendation 4A — Modernize the Renewable Energy Standard (RES) to promote 
retail distributed generation and storage that benefits the grid and aligns the RES 
with Clean Energy Plans. 
 
In 2004, the people of Colorado passed Amendment 37, which, among other things:177 
 
• Required large electric utilities to generate a certain percentage of their 
electricity from renewable resources beginning with three percent by 2007 and 
increasing to 10 percent by 2015; 
• Defined renewable resources as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass, small 
hydroelectricity and hydrogen fuel cells; 
• Required utilities to offer rebates and other incentives for solar electricity 
generation; 
 
177 Ballotpedia.  Colorado Amendment 37, Renewable Energy Sources for Utilities Initiative (2004).  Retrieved 
August 11, 2025, from 
ballotopedia.org/Colordo_Amendment_37_Renewable_Energy_Sources_for_Utilities_Initiaitive_(2004) 
