 
 
83 | P a g e 
of the RES.  If the emission reduction goals of the clean energy plan are to be attained, 
the goals of the RES will be attained several times over. 
 
Whether and to what extent the RES remains relevant in today’s world was a topic of 
lengthy discussion during the course of this sunset review. Some maintain that since 
the goals of the RES have been achieved and since the conversation has now shifted to 
focus on the emissions of generation sources, rather than the sources themselves, the 
RES is obsolete. Moreover, renewable energy is no longer a higher-cost option, as it 
once was, and it is growing to such an extent that curtailment is increasing.   This means 
that such electricity is literally “dumped” from the grid without being used when 
generation from renewables exceeds demand. 
 
Some maintain that various aspects of the RES, particularly the multitude of programs 
created thereunder, serve to incentivize distributed generation (which may well play a 
key role in the energy infrastructure of the future).  So, they maintain, the RES should 
be retained, at least in part. 
 
Still others maintain that given the uncertainty surrounding renewable energy and 
greenhouse gas reductions at the federal level, Colorado should refrain from taking 
action that would limit its ability to act alone, if necessary. 
 
The fact remains that requiring full implementation of both the RES and CEP is a time-
intensive exercise for utilities and for Commission staff that is already limited in 
resources and facing increasingly more complex cases. Strategic changes to the RES 
could both reduce workload for utilities and the PUC while retaining those provisions 
still relevant to current policy and legislative priorities. 
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial creation 
of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would 
warrant more, less or the same degree of government oversight.  As discussed earlier, 
the energy landscape has undergone change.  This recommendation addresses changes 
warranted by that evolution. 
 
Four important areas of conflict or inconsistency are: 
 
1. Duplication of Efforts: Generally speaking, the same utility-scale resources that 
are used to comply with the CEP are also used to comply with the RES, and more 
of them will be required for the CEP. Yet, utilities are required to report on 
meeting both the RES and CEP renewable energy credit requirements, which 
results in redundant tracking and review by PUC staff. 
 
The third sunset criterion asks whether existing statutes establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest.  
Redundant reporting and tracking reports are, by their very nature, overly 
restrictive. 
 
