 
 
84 | P a g e 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend section 40-2-124(1)(c)(I), C.R.S., 
regarding the requirement for eligible energy resources to comprise up to 30 
percent of sales by 2020 and create an additional target by, beginning in 2027, 
allowing utilities with approved CEPs that demonstrate compliance with the 
reduction target of the CEP to opt out of the RES requirements.  Such utilities 
should still be required to file applications to support retail distributed 
generation and storage programs that provide grid value, and to submit the 
associated reports. 
 
2. Calculation of the Rate Impact: Section 40-2-124 (1)(g)(I)(A), C.R.S., states 
that the retail rate impact of the RES “shall be determined net of alternative 
sources of electricity supply from noneligible 181 energy resources that are 
reasonably available at the time of the determination.” Since the state is no 
longer pursuing electricity supply from noneligible energy resources, and 
because renewable energy cannot be presumed to always be higher-cost than 
fossil fuel resources, this comparison is no longer relevant or functional. Instead, 
it creates a complex, counterfactual modeling requirement that makes it 
challenging to predict the amount of funding that may be available for 
distributed solar or storage programs in a given year. 
 
The third sunset criterion asks whether existing statutes establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest.  
Requiring complex modeling that no longer reflects market conditions or state 
policy goals is, by its very nature, overly restrictive. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend section 40-2-124(1)(g)(I)(A), 
C.R.S., to eliminate the complex counterfactual calculations regarding 
renewables by specifying that the retail rate impact should be based on the cost 
of the retail distributed programs offered by the utility, as determined by the 
Commission, and repealing language referring to noneligible energy sources. 
 
3. Programmatic Goals: The RES has been instrumental in driving incremental 
solar, particularly distributed and community solar, across the state. With the 
increasing levels of utility-scale, distributed and community solar, balancing the 
electrical grid now requires the curtailment of significant amounts of solar and 
wind generation. This is already a problem and is projected to grow. The RES 
was appropriately focused on driving investment in solar when it was established 
in 2004, but the language should now be updated to promote more strategic 
investment in distributed solar and storage based on locational value. This is 
consistent with the direction of more recent legislation regarding virtual power 
plants, non-wires alternatives and dispatchable distributed generation, as 
outlined in Senate Bill 24-207 and Senate Bill 24-218. 
 
 
181 “Noneligible energy resources” are those that are not renewable. 
