 
 
85 | P a g e 
The second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to the initial 
creation of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen 
that would warrant more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight.  
The RES was established to stimulate investment in solar energy.  That mission 
was successful, but now it should be updated to promote more strategic 
investments based on location. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend section 40-2-124(1)(c)(I)(E), 
C.R.S., to repeal the requirement that distributed generation be at least three 
percent of retail sales. This provision, along with the associated reporting, was 
designed to encourage and track distributed solar adoption before it became 
more affordable and widely available. 
 
4. Municipal and Cooperative Utility Requirements: The RES contains several 
reporting requirements for municipal and cooperative utilities. However, since 
the Commission lacks jurisdiction over these utilities, the Commission collects 
these reports but takes no action, such as review and approval. 
 
The third sunset criterion asks whether existing statutes establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest.  
Requiring reports upon which no action is taken is, by its very nature, overly 
restrictive. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend sections 40-2-124(4), C.R.S., as 
it pertains to municipal utilities and section 40-2-124(5.5), C.R.S., as it pertains 
to electric cooperatives to specify that the reporting requirements apply to such 
utilities only if they are not in compliance with the CEP.   
 
 
Recommendation 4B — Direct the PUC to commission a study into the joint procurement 
of advanced technology generation resources, wind, solar, and transmission between 
jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional utilities.  
 
As with most industries, purchasing power and economies of scale play an important 
role in the electric sector.  Larger utilities attract more participation from generation 
and transmission project developers and larger projects cost less on a per-unit basis.  
This leads to larger utilities having access to more competitively priced projects when 
procuring new energy resources than their smaller utility counterparts.  Ratepayers of 
smaller electric utilities would likely benefit from a system that reduces the barriers to 
co-development of energy projects, providing them with access to better financing 
options, better economies of scale and more overall competitive pressure. 
 
These matters are further complicated by competing forms of generation, such as wind 
and solar, storage and transmission, as well as the existence of organized wholesale 
markets. 
 
