 
 
86 | P a g e 
The third sunset criterion asks whether existing statutes establish the least restrictive 
form of governmental oversight consistent with the public interest. 
 
As electric rates continue to rise, it is reasonable to explore all options for containing 
costs.   
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should direct the PUC to commission a study to 
identify barriers to joint procurement by electric utilities of advanced technology 
generation resources, wind generation, solar generation, conventional or innovative 
storage, and transmission. The study should further address how barriers may vary 
across jurisdictional and non-jurisdictional utilities and propose solutions to reduce 
such barriers. Finally, the study should examine whether and how participation in an 
organized wholesale market creates or reduces barriers to joint resource procurement. 
 
Recommendation 4C — Maximize the efficiency and impact of utilities’ customer-facing 
programs. 
 
Since 2007, Colorado has adopted several statutes that direct investor-owned utilities 
regulated by the Commission to implement customer-facing programs aimed at 
reducing energy bills and that support reducing energy consumption and the transition 
to lower or zero-carbon emitting technologies. These include demand side 
management, beneficial electrification, clean heat plans and transportation 
electrification. 
 
However, for many of these programs, utilities lack a natural incentive to take certain 
actions or implement these programs effectively.  For example, an electric utility has 
little incentive to support well-managed electric vehicle charging that reduces capital 
spending on infrastructure upgrades. Additionally, smaller utilities may lack the ability 
(due to staffing or economies of scale) to operate programs at a reasonable cost to 
ratepayers. Lastly, certain ratepayer affordability programs that are currently 
implemented by a third party are done without a competitive process and with limited 
oversight of ratepayer dollars. At the same time, recently established state enterprises, 
such as the Building Decarbonization Enterprise created by House Bill 25-1269, may 
provide an alternative option for administering competitive solicitations for third-party 
program administration. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency operates in the public 
interest and whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes.  
Increased accountability regarding ratepayer dollars is in the public interest. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should explicitly authorize the Commission to require 
utilities to administer specific customer-facing programs through one or more third 
parties, if deemed prudent and in the best interest of ratepayers.  This authorization 
should grant the Commission the ability to require a competitive bidding process, 
whether that process is managed by the PUC or another party, to procure the services 
of a third-party implementer. 
