 
 
87 | P a g e 
Recommendation 4D — Clarify the applicability of the Commission’s appeals process for 
critical energy production and transmission projects. 
 
In section 29-20-108(1), C.R.S., the General Assembly, 
 
finds, determines and declares that location, construction, and 
improvement of major electrical and natural gas facilities are matters of 
statewide concern. 
 
Major electrical or natural gas facilities are defined as including:182 
 
• Electrical generating facilities; 
• Substations used for switching, regulating, transforming or otherwise modifying 
the characteristics of electricity; 
• Transmission lines operated at a nominal voltage of 96,000 volts or above; 
• Structures and equipment associated with such electrical generating facilities, 
substations or transmission lines; or 
• Structures and equipment utilized for the local distribution of natural gas 
service, including, but not limited to, compressors, gas mains and gas laterals. 
 
While the statute requires local land use regulations to include a process for the 
permitting of such facilities,183 it also allows certain utilities and power authorities the 
ability to appeal to the Commission, a local government decision to deny a permit for 
these facilities: 
 
If a local government denies a permit or application of a public utility or 
power authority that relates to the location, construction, or 
improvement of major electrical or natural gas facilities, or if the local 
government imposes requirements or conditions upon such permit or 
application that will unreasonably impair the ability of the public utility 
or power authority to provide safe, reliable, and economical service to 
the public, the public utility or power authority may appeal the local 
government action to the [Commission] . . .184 
 
To file an appeal with the Commission, one of the following conditions must exist:185 
 
• The utility or power authority applied for or has obtained a CPCN from the 
Commission for the facility at issue; 
• A CPCN is not required for the facility; or 
• The Commission has previously entered an order that conflicts with the local 
government action. 
 
 
182 § 29-20-108(3)(a), C.R.S. 
183 § 29-20-108(2), C.R.S. 
184 § 29-20-108(5)(a), C.R.S. 
185 §§ 29-20-108(5)(a)(I-III), C.R.S. 
