 
 
88 | P a g e 
However, this language was drafted before Colorado’s energy mix included wind and 
solar farms, battery storage or independent power producers.  The lack of clarity in the 
statute calls into question which utilities beyond those regulated by the Commission, 
and power authorities, may file an appeal with the Commission and for which types of 
projects. 
 
Cooperative electric associations and municipalities have voted to exempt themselves 
from Commission regulation.  Similarly, independent power producers are not regulated 
by the Commission.  Such entities must follow a different process for local government 
siting and permitting authority, and to appeal a local government’s decision on such 
matters, they must go through the state’s courts. 
 
This means that the appeals of nonjurisdictional utilities and independent power 
producers may be treated differently than those of jurisdictional utilities. 
 
Ultimately, if such facilities are truly matters of statewide concern, then the appeals 
process should be the same regardless of whether the applicant is a jurisdictional 
utility, nonjurisdictional utility or an independent power producer. 
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether conditions that led to the initial regulation 
have changed that would warrant more, less or the same degree of governmental 
oversight.  The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency operates in the 
public interest and whether its operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statues. 
 
Conditions have changed since this process was initially enacted.  Today, more than 
just jurisdictional utilities develop and construct the facilities that the General 
Assembly has already declared to be matters of statewide concern. 
 
Similarly, the current appellate process establishes a different set of rules for appealing 
local government decisions related to facilities the Commission has already deemed 
necessary. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should clarify that all municipal utilities, rural 
electrical cooperative associations and independent power project developers may 
appeal local land use decisions to the Commission for any type of energy resource 
facility built or acquired by these entities to serve their customers. 
 
 
Recommendation 5 — Authorize the Commission to direct investor-owned 
electric utilities to use securitization as an alternative means of financing and 
recovering costs as compared to traditional methods when securitization is 
shown to lower ratepayer costs. 
 
Securitization, as applied to Colorado investor-owned electric utilities, entails the 
recovery of costs incurred in the provision of service to customers through a non-
