 
 
89 | P a g e 
bypassable charge on customer bills for the purpose of securing lower financing costs 
as compared to the financing costs reflected in traditional rates established by the 
Commission.  The lower financing costs achieved by securitization are intended either 
to materially lower overall costs to ratepayers or to avoid or mitigate rate impacts to 
them. 
 
The General Assembly first empowered the Commission to implement securitization in 
2019 through the enactment of Senate Bill 19-236.   This bill enabled electric utilities 
to ask for the authority to issue revenue bonds subject to certain filing and approval 
standards. 
 
The primary means by which utilities earn their profits is through their “rate base.”  
This refers to the process by which a utility invests in capital infrastructure, such as 
transmission lines and power plants, and then recovers that initial investment and any 
related profits by passing along the associated costs to ratepayers according to the 
utility’s Commission-approved return on equity. By this mechanism, the utility profits 
from the construction and maintenance of infrastructure. 
 
Thus, a utility has a natural incentive to include as many investments as possible into 
its rate base because doing so will increase its profitability. 
 
Securitization is one way by which a utility can invest in capital infrastructure without 
increasing its rate base.  Given the economics described above, securitization is not 
necessarily in the utility’s best financial interests, but it may be in ratepayers’ best 
financial interests. 
 
However, the Commission’s statutory authority to issue a financing order to implement 
securitization is limited to the filing of an application by a utility at its sole discretion.  
Securitization is further limited to costs associated with the early retirement of coal 
plants and with the implementation of approved wildfire mitigation plans. 
 
The Commission may uncover potential opportunities to apply securitization beyond 
coal plant retirements and wildfire mitigation plans during its review of electric and 
gas rates in rate base proceedings or through the course of proceedings that address 
electric resource plans, distribution system plans, beneficial electrification plans, and 
other plans involving significant capital expenditures. 
  
Utilities typically face reduced potential for future earnings when securitization is 
implemented. Opportunities for customer savings or other benefits from securitization 
may thus be foreclosed if the Commission remains unable to direct utilities to file for 
approval of financing orders because such applications are filed solely at the utility’s 
discretion. 
 
The second sunset criterion questions whether the conditions that led to the initial 
creation of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that 
would require more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
