 
 
91 | P a g e 
For example, the statutory definition of an income qualified household is 60 percent of 
state median income, 80 percent of area median income or 200 percent of the federal 
poverty level, whichever is higher.  However, the individual programs that refer 
customers to the PIPP use different eligibility requirements. 
 
To illustrate, one utility allows customers to apply directly through its website for PIPP 
but requires customers to enter their 10-digit LEAP Household Identification Number.  
This means that the customer must first apply for and receive LEAP benefits, which 
uses the 60 percent of state median income eligibility criterion, before they can apply 
for the utility’s PIPP.  The others do not have a similar requirement. 
 
Once a customer is referred to a utility’s PIPP, the utility calculates the percentage of 
that customer’s bill that is deemed affordable using the customer’s income and 
historical energy usage.  Some utilities consider LEAP benefits to be part of the 
customer’s income, while others do not. 
 
Additionally, one utility enrolls customers into its PIPP on a rolling basis, requiring re-
enrollment 12 months later.  Other utilities also allow enrollment on a rolling basis, but 
they require re-enrollment on October 31 each year.  This can be particularly confusing 
for customers that use one utility for gas and another for electricity. 
 
Thus, the current system is confusing, and customers are treated differently based on 
their respective utilities.  Customers also receive different financial support depending 
on the service territory in which they live.  One utility may have a higher percentage 
of low-income residents and end up with years-long PIPP waiting lists, while another 
utility may have an excess of PIPP funding.  This difference in funding, in combination 
with varied implementation strategies of PIPP, leads to unequal support across utilities. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public and 
the fourth sunset criterion asks whether agency rules enhance the public interest and 
are within the legislative intent. 
 
Energy affordability programs represent a critical component of the state’s ability to 
complement affordable housing programs and are embedded in the Commission’s 
mission to ensure safe, reliable and affordable utility service for all Coloradans.  
However, the way in which these programs have been implemented is inconsistent and 
inequitable. 
 
PIPPs and other energy affordability programs and agencies across the state are funded 
by ratepayer money.  However, there is no competitive process for the implementation 
and distribution of ratepayer funding.  This lack of accountability can lead to an 
inefficiency of funding for energy assistance programs. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should direct the Commission to 
standardize implementation and access to the utilities’ PIPPs and to study the PIPP 
concept more generally to determine whether funding access and equity can be 
improved. 
