 
 
92 | P a g e 
Transportation 
 
Recommendation 7 — Authorize the Commission develop TNC driver facial 
recognition requirements in rule and amend statute to include a criminal 
penalty for driver impersonation.  
 
Driver turnover rate in the transportation network company (TNC) market in Colorado 
is often high.  As a result, there are concerns of what is commonly referred to as “driver 
impersonation.”  This occurs when someone who is not currently authorized by a 
particular TNC to drive on their behalf, logs into the account of a legitimate TNC driver 
and poses as that driver.  This may occur with or without the legitimate driver’s 
permission.  Regardless, the result is an unauthorized driver providing TNC services to 
riders, thereby jeopardizing public safety, and driver-on-rider assaults have taken place 
under such circumstances. 
 
As a preventative measure, some TNCs already utilize some form of facial recognition 
monitoring of their drivers to ensure the driver’s identity, although the level of 
similarity in facial recognition procedures from one TNC to the next is not currently 
known.  
 
Furthermore, there are currently no laws specifically prohibiting TNC driver 
impersonation in Colorado. Statute indirectly prohibits TNC driver impersonation, since 
all TNC drivers are required to successfully complete a qualification process, and given 
these requirements, the Commission does have the authority to assess penalties in the 
event that this process is not followed.  However, if an individual were to commit the 
act of TNC driver impersonation, there is currently no legal requirement that law 
enforcement be involved or notified, since TNC driver impersonation is not a criminal 
act in itself.  
 
As of the writing of this report, six states have enacted legislation to add some form of 
criminal penalty for TNC driver impersonation, including Florida, Illinois, North 
Carolina, Oregon, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Although the laws enacted in each 
state vary, several states’ laws contain similarities, including the penalty of a criminal 
misdemeanor charge for the act of impersonating a TNC driver, with the potential to 
elevate the charge to a felony if other felonies were also committed during the act of 
impersonation. 
 
The first, fifth, and tenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices…; and  
 
