 
 
93 | P a g e 
Whether complaint, investigation, and disciplinary procedures adequately 
protect the public… 
 
In recent years, TNCs have become thriving businesses that are often an integral 
component in the available transportation service options for consumers throughout 
Colorado. Likewise, consumers place a great deal of trust in the company that they 
utilize to ensure that the driver’s identity is confirmed.  
 
TNC companies currently employ many procedures and technological processes to 
ensure rider safety, of which facial recognition is only a part.  However, there are a 
variety of TNCs providing services in Colorado, utilizing a variety of techniques to 
ensure that driver impersonation is prevented. If the Commission were to establish 
specific processes in rule to be followed by TNCs for periodic checks through facial 
recognition confirmation, risks regarding TNC driver impersonation may be further 
minimized by helping to ensure that the person driving the TNC vehicle is, in fact, the 
authorized TNC driver. 
 
Additionally, authorizing the Commission to develop rules regarding TNC driver facial 
recognition could also provide an opportunity for a stakeholder process with open 
meetings, enabling stakeholders to provide input regarding the development of any 
related rules. This rulemaking process would also help to ensure standardization among 
the procedures employed by TNCs regarding this important safety feature, which is in 
the public interest. Section 40-10.1-603, C.R.S., limits regulation of TNCs by the 
Commission to those regulatory elements specifically stated in statute.  Therefore, 
statutory language must be incorporated into statute to allow the Commission to set 
rules regarding facial recognition. 
 
Lastly, establishing a criminal penalty for TNC driver impersonation would criminalize 
the act itself, and allow law enforcement to become more immediately involved if 
impersonation were to occur. The establishment of a criminal penalty may potentially 
deter some bad actors from attempting to impersonate a driver in the first place and 
would create legal consequences for those who do attempt impersonation, which would 
help to protect the public health, safety and welfare.  For these reasons, the General 
Assembly should authorize the Commission to develop TNC driver facial recognition 
requirements in rule and amend statute to include a criminal penalty for driver 
impersonation. 
 
 
Recommendation 8 — Authorize the Commission to require TNCs to annually 
submit to the Commission all safety-related incident reports, redacted to 
protect personally identifiable information, and authorize the PUC to make 
the reports publicly available. 
 
Section 40-10.1-605, C.R.S., addresses a variety of operational requirements for TNCs, 
which are all fundamentally meant to ensure the safety of TNC drivers and riders, 
including possessing a valid driver’s license and certification of medical fitness, 
