 
 
95 | P a g e 
matched though the digital network; race; ethnicity; gender; sexual 
orientation…; gender identity…; gender expression…; or disability that 
could prevent customers from accessing transportation.   
 
Section 40-10.1-605(7)(a), C.R.S., states, 
 
A transportation network company is not liable for a driver’s violation of 
subsection (6) of this section unless the driver’s violation has been 
previously reported to the transportation network company in writing, and 
the transportation network company has failed to reasonably address the 
alleged violation… 
 
Additionally, statute clarifies instances in which the driver may refuse service to a 
rider, including:186 
 
• The passenger is acting in a disorderly, endangering, or unlawful manner; 
• The passenger is unable to care for themselves and is not accompanied by a 
responsible companion; or  
• The driver has already committed to providing a ride to another rider. 
 
Further, statute also provides an exception that prevents liability of TNCs in the event 
that a driver refuses to provide accessible service. 
 
In sum, statute currently prohibits a TNC driver from refusing services to a rider based 
upon discrimination. However, if a driver does refuse services to a rider based upon any 
of the elements mentioned in subsection (6)(a), the TNC company itself is not 
considered liable as long as the company has not “failed to reasonably address the 
alleged violation.” 
 
TNCs are already required by statute to submit annual reports to the PUC regarding 
incidents of rider refusal.  Section 40-10.1-605(9), C.R.S., states, 
 
A driver shall immediately report to the [TNC] any refusal to transport a 
passenger…and the [TNC] shall annually report all such refusals to the 
Commission in a form and manner determined by the Commission. 
 
Additionally, the Commission has established rules regarding the types of 
information that must be submitted in the annual refusal reports, including, but 
not limited to:187 
 
• The TNC’s name and permit number, 
• The date range of the report, 
• The identity of the driver, 
 
186 40-10.1-605(6)(a)(I) through (III), C.R.S. 
187 Code of Colorado Regulations: Public Utilities Commission, Rule 6720(a) through (c).  
