 
 
96 | P a g e 
• The reason for the refusal, 
• The date of the requested ride, 
• The address from which the ride was requested, 
• The destination upon which the ride was intended, 
• The reason that the ride was refused, and 
• Any discipline administered to the driver as a result of the rider refusal. 
 
Throughout the sunset review, stakeholders expressed concern that rider refusal rates 
among TNCs are not publicly available.  For example, it is unclear whether rider refusal 
may be occurring in some portions of the state more than in others, the types of rider 
refusals that are occurring, as well as the methods that TNCs are utilizing to address 
incidents of rider refusal with their drivers, including additional education 
requirements, disciplinary actions, or driver dismissal when warranted. 
 
Since TNCs are already submitting reports that contain this information, the public 
could be allowed to view these reports. However, since the current format of reporting 
contains information that may be considered sensitive, such as driver names and the 
addresses of specific rides offered, the reports should be redacted to protect any 
personally identifiable information. 
 
The fifth, tenth, and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices…; 
 
If reviewing a regulatory program, whether complaint, investigation, and 
disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public...; and 
 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
The public has expressed both interest and concern regarding TNC drivers refusing 
service, particularly if any element of discrimination may have occurred.  
 
TNC companies are already required to submit this information to the PUC, but none of 
the information in the reports is publicly available. Allowing the data contained within 
these reports to be released in a redacted manner would allow the public to ascertain 
how frequently refusals are occurring, where they are occurring, as well as any 
disciplinary action that TNC companies are taking to ensure that refusals are not 
reoccurring with the same drivers.   
 
By making these reports publicly available, consumers can make more informed 
decisions, and data could also be evaluated from a policy perspective to detect any 
patterns or trends, if they exist, regarding the frequency and location of ride refusals.  
