 
 
97 | P a g e 
Therefore, the General Assembly should provide the Commission with the authority to 
make rider refusal reports provided by TNCs publicly available in a redacted format. 
 
Recommendation 10 — Repeal section 40-10.1-605(7)(a), C.R.S., and raise 
the fine for refusal of service to increase TNC’s accountability in applicable 
situations. 
 
Section 40-10.1-605(6)(a), C.R.S., articulates that TNCs must “provide services to the 
public in a nondiscriminatory manner.” Further, this section of statute provides 
scenarios in which a TNC driver must not refuse services to a rider, unless: 
 
• The passenger is acting in an unlawful, disorderly, or endangering manner; 
• The passenger is unable to care for themself and is not in the charge of a 
responsible companion; or 
• The driver has already committed to providing a ride for another rider. 
 
Additionally, section 40-10.1-605(7)(a), C.R.S., states, 
 
A [TNC] is not liable for a driver’s violation of subsection (6) of this section 
unless the driver’s violation has been previously reported to the [TNC] in 
writing, and the [TNC] has failed to reasonably address the alleged 
violation . . . [emphasis added] 
 
The associated fine for a violation of this conduct is currently $550.188  
 
In sum, the burden of proof required to hold a TNC accountable may be difficult to 
demonstrate, since statute currently requires that the TNC need only have made an 
attempt to reasonably address the alleged violation. Instead, statutory clarification 
regarding the process whereby the Commission can establish its investigatory and 
hearing procedures in the event that a refusal is alleged to have occurred may be 
beneficial to improve transparency and eliminate any confusion regarding the 
Commission’s regulatory authority. 
 
Section 40-7-116, C.R.S., already provides statutory language regarding the 
enforcement of civil penalties and due process rights, including that respondents are 
entitled to proper notice, and a hearing, and that the PUC assumes the burden of proof 
in the matter. This standard is tethered to TNCs pursuant to section 40-10.1-606(5)(a), 
C.R.S. 
 
If section 40-10.1-605(7)(a), C.R.S., were repealed, there would be greater statutory 
uniformity regarding civil penalty assessment notices, which may also incentivize TNCs 
to take more robust action to eliminate, or at least significantly reduce, the volume of 
 
188 § 40-10.1-605(7)(b), C.R.S. 
