 
 
100 | P a g e 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
Expanding the requirement for background checks to other passenger carriers helps to 
create statutory uniformity and provides additional protections to the public health, 
safety, and welfare. Therefore, the General Assembly should amend section 40-10.1-
110, C.R.S., to include the requirement of background checks for drivers of all 
passenger carriers holding a certificate of public convenience and necessity or a 
contract carrier permit. 
 
 
 
Recommendation 13 —Direct the PUC to conduct a study on the current 
regulatory structure for fully regulated intrastate carriers, including aspects 
of market entry and economic regulation, and require the PUC to submit its 
recommendations to the General Assembly by January 1, 2028. 
 
In order to be issued a CPCN, both contract and common carriers must submit to market 
entry standards, including seeking the Commission’s approval for the requested 
authority. While the Commission will grant any complete and unopposed application, 
full adjudication is necessary when other carriers operating in the same area have 
intervened against the authority being pursued.  
 
Interventions, which allow incumbent carriers to protect their property rights, either 
by right or permission, can significantly prolong the process, which may include 
elements such as negotiations, settlements, motions, prehearing conferences, 
evidentiary hearings, and Commissioner or administrative law judge deliberations.  
 
In addition, fully regulated intrastate carriers (common or contract) are also required 
to submit to economic regulation, through the filing of Commission-approved tariffs 
which set the rate structures the carriers must utilize as part of their operations. These 
are also pursued through formal Commission proceedings, whereby the carrier submits 
financial information, data, and other justification for the proposed rates. This process 
is also necessary if at any point the carrier chooses to pursue an increase or decrease 
to the currently approved rate structure. 
 
Common carriers are defined as public utilities, pursuant to section 40-1-103(1)(a)(I), 
C.R.S., and their rates must be just and reasonable, in order to protect the public, 
pursuant to section 40-3-101(1), C.R.S. 
 
These current structures have been the status quo for nearly 75 years, and the 
justification for these frameworks was even successfully argued in front of the Colorado 
Supreme Court as recently as 2023.189 
 
 
189 Batayneh v. Dean, Colorado Court of Appeals, 2023. 
