 
 
101 | P a g e 
However, arguments could be made that the current market entry processes can create 
burdens on new (and often smaller or start-up) carriers attempting to find a place 
within the industry. The intervention process can be daunting, especially when 
entrenched carriers have a better knowledge of the Commission and its procedures and 
have greater access to resources, including legal representation.  
 
The vast majority of transportation carriers elect to represent themselves in front of 
the Commission, in a pro se format, and the potentially negative ramifications of this 
may also be compounded when they are individuals for whom English is a second 
language.  
 
Furthermore, economic regulation can be an imposition for carriers, especially during 
times of uncertain inflationary pressures, such as sharp increases in gasoline prices. 
Under the current framework, these types of rate adjustments, even on a temporary 
basis, must go through the formalized process outlined above. 
 
A study of these concepts, particularly from evidence-based or data-driven approach, 
could be helpful in exploring the current statutory makeup and addressing any potential 
changes to these standards. Some issues to be explored as part of the study may include 
addressing questions such as: 
 
• Is the current model for market entry of common and contract carriers (such 
as regulated monopoly and regulated competition) still an appropriate 
standard to be implemented in Colorado, given factors such as the economic 
landscape and job creation? If not, to what extent might things be changed or 
modified? 
• Is the current model for economic regulation of common and contract carriers 
which requires rate structures to be approved and set in a just, reasonable, 
and consistent manner for each passenger, still perceived as a benefit to the 
industry and consumers? 
• What is the proper balance between service territory protections (such as  
regulated monopoly and regulated competition) and the potential burdens 
associated with these market entry and economic regulation standards? 
 
The second, third, ninth, and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight; 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms; 
 
Whether the agency stimulates or restricts competition; and 
 
