 
 
102 | P a g e 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
Given the complexity of the current market entry processes and the potential 
overarching impacts to both related industries and consumers, a study of these 
important questions is needed to help guide the future of related regulation.  
Therefore, the General Assembly should direct the PUC to conduct a study on the 
current regulatory structure for fully regulated intrastate carriers, including aspects of 
market entry and economic regulation, and require the PUC to submit its 
recommendations to the General Assembly by January 1, 2028. 
 
 
Recommendation 14 — Authorize the Commission to align vehicle inspection 
requirements for motor carriers in rule. 
 
In order to obtain a permit from the Commission, motor carriers must first obtain an 
inspection of any vehicle that is intended for operation by the use of the applicant. 
Currently, there are differing standards amongst various motor carrier types regarding 
when an inspection must be performed. 
 
For example, section 40-10.1-702(3), C.R.S., provides specific instructions for large-
market taxicab services regarding the timeframe within which vehicle inspections must 
be conducted in order to receive a permit as, 
 
…within the immediately preceding twelve months by a qualified 
mechanic in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commission. 
[emphasis added] 
 
However, for limited regulation motor carriers (including, but not limited to luxury 
limousines, charter buses, and off-road scenic charters), section 40-10.1-302(4), C.R.S., 
provides far less time to meet vehicle inspection requirements to receive a permit, 
stating that an applicant, 
 
…must have each vehicle operated under the permit inspected within the 
immediately preceding twenty days by a qualified mechanic… [emphasis 
added] 
 
Vehicle inspections are an important component to ensure public safety. However, 
some permit types provide less time for inspection for initial application, and some less 
time to complete inspections or require more frequent inspections than others upon 
renewal, which adds additional cost to some businesses over others, and may contribute 
to a barrier to entry into the industry for some permit types.  
 
The first, third, and fifth sunset criteria ask, 
 
