 
 
103 | P a g e 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; 
 
…whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest…; and  
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters. 
 
In order to address these inconsistencies, relevant statutory sections should be modified 
to indicate that vehicle inspections may be accepted as a part of the permitting process 
in accordance with Commission rules.  This would allow the Commission to make any 
changes to create alignment in the inspection process through open meetings and a 
stakeholder process, which is in the public interest.  For this reason, the General 
Assembly should authorize the Commission to align vehicle inspection requirements for 
motor carriers in rule. 
 
 
Recommendation 15 — Update statutory language to mirror current federal 
rail transit requirements. 
 
During the sunset review process, Commission staff provided numerous examples of 
statutory provisions that require revision in order to incorporate new federal statutory 
language into state law for clarity and consistency. This includes the need to update 
state statute to reflect the current requirements located in the Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR) (See 49 CFR Parts 673 and 674) regarding the federal Public 
Transportation Agency Safety Plan for transit rail, as well as statutory updates to match 
the federal requirements located in the U.S. Code (See 49 U.S.C. 5329 and 49 U.S.C. 
5330). 
 
The second and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest; and 
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
Addressing any statutory changes needed to make state law consistent with federal law 
would increase statutory clarity and ultimately, enhance the public interest.  
Therefore, the General Assembly should update statutory language to match current 
federal rail transit requirements.  
