 
 
104 | P a g e 
Telecommunications 
 
Recommendation 16 — Modernize the Colorado No Call List Fee Cap 
 
The State of Colorado created a No Call List prior to the establishment of the federal 
list, and the PUC continues to maintain it. Currently, the Commission annually 
establishes the fees that companies must pay to obtain the list. The state No Call List 
is managed by a third-party entity that receives the revenue, and the Department of 
Law prosecutes companies that violate requirements of the No Call List. 
 
At this time, the No Call List has a funding problem since the fees for companies to 
access the list are capped at $500 per year, and this cap has not been adjusted since 
the creation of the program in 2002. 
 
The Commission is statutorily required to create a sliding fee scale for companies that 
purchase the list. However, the fees have reached the statutory limit, and a sliding 
scale will soon no longer be feasible. Additionally, if the fee cap is not adjusted for 
inflation, the Commission will no longer have sufficient funds to contract with a vendor 
to maintain the list.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operations are impeded 
by existing statutes, including budgetary and resource matters. Since the fee cap may 
soon render the No Call List insolvent, the cap impedes the Commission’s ability to 
maintain it. 
 
If the fee cap were modernized to account for inflation, it would be approximately 
$1,000. As long as the fee cap is increased to this amount and Recommendation 17, 
which proposes that conforming list brokers also pay fees to obtain a copy of the list, 
is adopted, the No Call List should remain solvent.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should modernize the No Call List fee cap established 
in section 6-1-905(3)(b)(II), C.R.S., by raising it to $1,000.  
 
 
Recommendation 17 — Require Conforming List Brokers to pay a fee to obtain 
the No Call List. 
 
For companies to comply with the requirements of the No Call List, they must first 
obtain the list. To do this, they are required to pay a fee. The Commission annually 
establishes the No Call List fees based on a sliding scale as required in statute.  
 
However, inexplicably, conforming list brokers, entities that obtain the No Call List and 
then sell it to other companies, are exempted from paying the fees required to obtain 
the list. In order for the No Call List to remain solvent, conforming list brokers, which 
profit directly from their sale of the list, should also be required to pay a fee to obtain 
it. 
