 
 
105 | P a g e 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether agency operations are impeded by 
existing statutes and any other circumstances, including budgetary matters. 
 
For this reason, the General Assembly should require conforming list brokers to pay a 
fee to obtain the No Call List. 
 
 
Recommendation 18 — Clarify Fees for Wireless and Voice-over-Internet 
Protocol Telecommunications Providers 
 
Since the fees and service provided by wireless telecommunication providers are no 
longer regulated by the Commission, section 40-1-103(1)(b)(V), C.R.S., exempts them 
from the definition of a public utility. Additionally, Voice-over-Internet Protocol (VoIP) 
Providers are exempted from regulation by section 40-15-401(1)(r), C.R.S. As a result, 
they are also exempt from the fee assessed pursuant to sections 40-2-112 through 40-
2-114, C.R.S., which funds the telecommunications section in the PUC.  
 
Despite this, wireless telecommunications companies and VoIP providers still generate 
substantial work for the PUC. For example, wireless telecommunications service 
providers and VoIP providers often file applications for CPCNs in order to help obtain 
local building permits for wireless infrastructure, applications for certification as an 
Eligible Telecommunications Carrier (ETC) so they can participate in the federal Lifeline 
program for subsidized telephone service, file annual Letters of Registration for toll 
services, and file annual contact forms. 
 
This work performed by the PUC staff consumes a significant amount of the PUCs 
resources, despite being generated by companies not required to pay into the fund that 
supports the Commission’s telecom responsibilities.  
 
While these companies are no longer considered “public utilities,” they still rely on, 
and their customers still benefit from, work performed by the telecommunications 
section. However, only wired telephone companies or companies that voluntarily agree 
to contribute are assessed telecommunications fees, which means customers of these 
companies are paying a disproportionate amount to cover the costs of the PUC 
telecommunications section. 
 
In order to ensure that all companies that create workload for the Commission are 
paying to cover those costs, a definition of telephone corporation should be adopted 
that includes all companies that provide voice service, regardless of the technology 
used.  
 
Doing this would modernize the statutes, which were structured to support a regulatory 
model that no longer exists. It would also create more clarity in the statutes and ensure 
that telecommunications fees are equitably assessed. 
 
