 
 
107 | P a g e 
Currently the statute allows 9-1-1 funds to be spent on radio equipment outside of the 
Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), or 9-1-1 center. 
 
Under the federal law, the FCC is vested with broad authority to regulate 
communication technology and services. While federal law establishes a dual regulatory 
system with some regulatory authority resting with the states, in this case, federal law 
would preempt a conflicting state law. As such, the Colorado statute should be brought 
into alignment with the FCC guidelines.  
 
The fourteenth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether statutory changes are necessary 
to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. Current state law does 
not comply with federal requirements. The public interest will be better served by 
having a state law that conforms to federal requirements. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should revise section 29-11-104(2)(a)(II), C.R.S., as 
follows: 
 
If money is available after the costs and charges enumerated in subsection 
(2)(a)(I) of this section are fully paid in a given year, the money may be 
expended for: 
 
(A) Public safety radio equipment outside the PSAP THAT IS USED 
FOR DISPATCHING EMERGENCY SERVICE PROVIDERS TO RESPOND TO 
9-1-1 CALLS; or 
(B) Personnel expenses necessarily incurred for a PSAP or the 
governing body in the provision of emergency telephone service. 
 
 
Recommendation 20 — Modernize the statute to authorize the Commission to 
establish and enforce intrastate rate caps on incarcerated people’s 
communications services. 
 
The FCC sets rate caps for communication services, such as telephone and video calls, 
for people who are incarcerated in the penal system. The purpose of these caps is to 
limit the rates charged by service providers, which according to the FCC, have burdened 
incarcerated people for decades.  
 
The Commission is currently only authorized to monitor interstate rates charged by 
incarcerated people’s communications service (IPCS) providers. However, the FCC now 
sets intrastate rate caps, and the statute should be modernized to reflect this. 
 
As the FCC establishes the rate caps for both intrastate and interstate IPCS 
communications, the Commission should be authorized to adopt intrastate rate caps, 
as long as they do not exceed those established by the FCC, and it should also be granted 
enforcement authority.  
 
