 
 
108 | P a g e 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. 
 
Historically, incarcerated people have been charged excessive rates in order to 
communicate with family, friends and other connections in the community.  
 
Communicating with their family, friends and community is important to incarcerated 
people’s mental health and general wellbeing. Importantly, communication services 
help to maintain important relationships, which supports them so that they may 
successfully transition when they are released. Considering this, ensuring incarcerated 
people are only charged reasonable rates to communicate with the outside world 
protects the health, safety and welfare of all Coloradans. 
 
Providing the Commission with the authority to adopt and enforce these rates would 
provide Coloradans with better protection than they may have at the federal level. 
Additionally, the Commission would be able to adjust rates depending on the conditions 
in the state.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should authorize the Commission to adopt intrastate 
rate caps, which do not exceed those established by the FCC, and the Commission 
should be granted the authority to enforce intrastate rate caps. 
 
 
Recommendation 21 — Require service providers to cooperate with the 
biannual testing of IPCS services that Commission staff is statutorily required 
to perform.  
 
The Commission staff are currently required to perform biannual testing on the IPCS 
systems and technologies being utilized within Colorado facilities that hold incarcerated 
people. This testing offers insight into the level that any given system is functioning 
while also ensuring that IPCS providers are adhering to the FCC intrastate rates. At this 
time, the statute requires penal facilities to cooperate with staff during testing, but it 
does not require cooperation from the IPCS providers themselves.  
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether an analysis of agency operations 
indicates that the agency performs its statutory duties efficiently and effectively.  
 
Sometimes cooperation is necessary from the IPCS providers to conduct a thorough test. 
As the Commission staff are required to perform biannual testing and cooperation from 
the IPCS providers is at times necessary, the statute should be revised to require those 
providers to cooperate. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should require IPCS providers to cooperate with 
Commission staff when it is performing biannual testing of IPCS services. 
 
 
