 
 
109 | P a g e 
Pipeline Safety 
 
Recommendation 22 — Repeal the requirement for a mandatory minimum 
penalty of $5,000 for small operators of natural gas pipelines that violate a 
rule or order concerning pipeline safety.   
 
Currently, section 40-7-117(2)(c), C.R.S., states that any civil penalty concerning 
pipeline safety may be reduced by the Commission based on consideration of objective 
metrics and factors set forth in rule.  The metric and factors must include: 
 
The extent to which the violator agrees to spend, in lieu of payment of 
part of the civil penalty, a specified dollar amount on Commission-
approved measures to reduce the overall risk to pipeline system safety or 
integrity; except that the amount of the penalty payable to the 
Commission must be a minimum of $5,000. 
 
As the statute referenced above indicates, there are mechanisms in place that enable 
operators of natural gas pipelines to decrease the amount of a civil penalty if certain 
measures are taken to mitigate the overall risk to pipeline system safety or integrity.  
However, there is a minimum baseline civil penalty requirement of $5,000.  The $5,000 
minimum civil penalty applies to all natural gas operators, regardless of their size, 
including small operators, also known as master meter operators. A small operator is 
any gas distribution system operator that operates less than 1,000 natural gas 
distribution services.190   
 
Generally, master meter operators purchase gas from a public utility or gas company 
through a master meter.  Master meter operators then resell the gas to individual users 
within the system, most commonly through smaller, individual meters.  Master meter 
systems are small in scale and are typically located in places such as apartment 
complexes and mobile home parks.     
 
In Colorado, there are currently 19 master meter operators under the jurisdiction of 
the Commission’s Pipeline Safety Program. In calendar years 2022 and 2023, there were 
11 master meter operators that paid the $5,000 minimum civil penalty fine for 
violations of pipeline safety requirements.  Although the statute enables the amount of 
a civil penalty to decrease when certain compliance metrics are met, the $5,000 
minimum civil penalty remains, and is particularly difficult for master meter operators 
to comply with due to their small size.   
 
The $5,000 minimum civil penalty could be utilized for system improvements rather 
than paying the fine to the Commission.  For example, if there are deficiencies 
identified during an inspection, the master meter operator should have the opportunity 
to utilize their funds to make necessary repairs to ensure public safety rather than 
paying the required $5,000 civil penalty.   
 
190 4 C.C.R. § 723-1101 ccc, Rules Regulating Pipeline Operators and Gas Pipeline Safety 
