 
 
110 | P a g e 
The third sunset criterion asks whether existing statutes and regulations establish the 
least restrictive form of regulation consistent with the public interest.  The minimum 
$5,000 civil penalty requirement is overly restrictive, particularly for master meter 
operators.  Instead of requiring the imposition of a minimum civil penalty for violations 
of the pipeline safety requirements, governmental oversight should initially focus on 
compliance with safety standards, which would be less restrictive on master meter 
operators and advance the public interest.  Doing so would enable them to utilize their 
limited funds to ensure compliance rather than paying a civil penalty, and then still 
having to address any violations of safety standards.    
 
As such, the General Assembly should repeal the minimum $5,000 civil penalty 
requirement for small operators of natural gas pipelines from the statute.  Doing so 
would enable small master meter operators to focus on compliance with existing 
pipeline safety standards to ensure consumers are protected from harm.   
 
Water 
 
Recommendation 23 — Direct the PUC to conduct a study of privately owned 
water utilities.  
 
The Commission regulates the rates of four small, privately held water utility 
companies, some of which act as master meter operators for mobile home parks or 
other small developments. Pursuant to section 40-3-104.4, C.R.S., the Commission may 
grant less comprehensive regulatory treatment to these small entities and has done so 
through its rules.  
 
However, because of maintenance needs, insurance and increasing regulation, such as 
the federal Environmental Protection Agency’s PFAS rules, these small private utilities 
are experiencing cost pressures that are spread over very small customer bases. As they 
are privately owned, for-profit water utilities, they typically do not qualify for grant 
programs that may be available for municipal water systems. As a result, these small 
water utilities may be at risk of failing. 
 
If a private water utility fails, consumers do not have a provider of last resort. This puts 
the customers of private water utilities at risk of not having access to water. 
 
Privately owned water systems can consider transitioning into special districts pursuant 
to section 32-1-202, C.R.S., which could provide access to more funding opportunities, 
but doing so requires legal support and can require significant resources. Alternatively, 
privately owned water systems could explore joining a municipal water system, if 
appropriate to the geographic area, but they may need to provide upfront funding to 
upgrade their system to meet the municipal utility’s standards.  
 
The Commission asserts jurisdiction when it receives a complaint against a privately 
owned water utility. Unless it receives a complaint, the Commission does not always 
know where the privately owned water utilities are in the state.  
