 
WHEREAS, Planning Division and Legal staff presented and explained the proposed 
amendments, and responded to Board questions and comments concerning the proposed 
amendments;  
 
 
WHEREAS, following the presentation by County staff, the Chair opened the Hearing 
for public comment, and the Board heard and considered such public comment as was 
presented on the proposed amendment; and 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Board hereby makes the following findings: 
 
1. That the statutory jurisdictional requirements have been met. 
 
2. That the Public Hearing was opened and that the public had the opportunity for public 
input and comment on the proposed amendments. 
 
3. That the Board has jurisdiction to hear, consider and act upon the proposed 
amendments to the Development Application Manual and Planning Review Fee 
Schedule. 
 
4. That the proposed amendments to the Development Application Manual and 
Planning Review Fee Schedule are appropriate and lawful, that the proposed 
amendments will promote the community's interest in reasonable subdivision 
regulations, and that the proposed amendments are in the public interest and for the 
public good. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of County Commissioners 
of Arapahoe County, Colorado, that the revisions to the Development Application Manual 
and the Planning Reviews Fee Schedule as set forth in the record are hereby adopted. 
 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Board of County Commissioners of Arapahoe 
County that Planning Division management, with the approval of the County Attorney, is 
hereby authorized to correct typographical errors and make such text revisions to the 
underlying Development Application Manual and Planning Review Fee Schedule as are 
reasonably necessary to incorporate the approved amendments into each.  
  
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Board of County Commissioners of Arapahoe 
County that the amendments to the Development Application Manual and Planning Review 
Fee Schedule approved by this Resolution shall be effective immediately.  
 
The vote was: 
 
Commissioner Baker, ___; Commissioner Campbell, ___; Commissioner Fields, ___; 
Commissioner Summey, ____; Commissioner Warren-Gully, ___. 
 
The Chair declared the motion carried and so ordered. 
 
