[PHYSICAL PAGE 0001]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 1
Effective 12/12/2017
Chapter Two
ADMINISTRATION
2.1.
GENERAL
2.1.1
Purpose
This Chapter sets forth the general authorities used in the administration of LDC including 
the types of review processes established to facilitate fair and effective decision-making 
and to encourage public participation.
2.1.2
Procedures Manual
The PCD Director shall establish processes, standards, and procedures to support the 
efficient review of development applications for conformance with this Code and State 
statute. The processes, standards, and procedures established by the PCD Director shall 
be published in a Procedures Manual, and may include detailed submittal requirements, 
application forms, review procedures including public notice requirements, review policies 
and guidelines to support the implementation and administration of the LDC. The public 
notice requirements the Procedures Manual, including the nature, extent, time period, 
and methods of delivery, shall, at a minimum, conform to the requirements of State 
Statute. The public notice requirements established by the PCD Director may exceed the 
minimum requirements of State Statute where determined necessary by the PCD Director 
to achieve the purposes of this Code.
The Procedures Manual and any amendments thereto shall become effective when 
approved by the PCD Director; however the Procedures Manual and any amendments 
thereto shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and BoCC for review and 
comment within 30 days of approval by the PCD Director. The Planning Commission and 
BoCC shall provide comments to the PCD Director within 30 days of receipt of the 
Procedures Manual or any amendment thereto. The PCD Director shall consider any 
comments provided by the Planning Commission and BoCC, and may amend the 
Procedures Manual based on the comments received from the Planning Commission and 
BoCC. The Planning Commission and BoCC may, but are not required to, endorse the 
Procedures Manual and any amendments thereto.
The Procedures Manual is a management and administration tool for the PCD. As a result, 
it is the duty of the PCD Director to develop and maintain the Procedures Manual in a 
manner that ensures the achievement of organizational and administrative efficiencies, 
timely processing of development applications, and effective and fair public involvement 
in the processing and review of development applications and administration of this Code.
A copy of the Procedures Manual shall be on file in the PCD. The Procedures Manual shall 
control the processing and review of all development applications.

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0002]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 2
Effective 12/12/2017
2.1.3 
Master Plan Advisory 
Simply by stating in this Code a requirement or preference for Master Plan consistency, 
the Board of County Commissioners has not by such statement rendered the Master Plan 
a binding requirement or regulation for either zoning or subdivision matters.  The Board 
of County Commissioners’ intent as expressed in its various Master Plan elements and in 
Appendix A, § A.1.6(B) to this Code is that the Master Plan be advisory only, and that the 
Board of County Commissioners retains its considerable discretion in deciding how to 
apply the Master Plan in making land use decisions.
2.1.4 
Resubmittal of Denied Application 
No development application which has been denied by the final decision-making 
authority for such application may be resubmitted unless evidence is presented showing 
that there has been a substantial change in conditions or circumstances.  A substantial 
change has occurred when the development application is substantially different in a 
material way from the one previously denied, or the conditions or circumstances 
surrounding the development application and material to the approval criteria for such 
application have substantially changed.
2.2.
AUTHORITIES
2.2.1
BoCC (Board of County Commissioners)
The authority of the BoCC to conduct its activities is established by State Statute. The 
manner in which those activities are conducted is established by BoCC Resolution 
Number 05-106, as may be amended from time to time. In addition to any authorities 
identified in BoCC Resolution Number 05-106, the BoCC is empowered to do the 
following with respect to administration of this Code:
(A)
Adopt Regulations
The BoCC may adopt and amend the LDC including, but not limited to, zoning and 
subdivision regulations and any associated maps.
(B)
Approve Permits and Applications
The BoCC may approve, approve with conditions, or deny map amendments, code 
amendments, special use permits, variance of use applications, preliminary plans, final 
plats, development plans, Development Agreements, and all other actions as identified 
by this Code, the Procedures Manual, or as established by State Statute.
(C)
Revoke Prior Approvals
The BoCC may void plats, SIAs or other official documents, or agreements if it is found 
there has been a material misrepresentation of fact, a failure to abide by conditions of 
approval, or violation of time limits established in this Code that impacts the design, or 
legal or physical status of a subdivision or development proposal after holding a 

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0003]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 3
Effective 12/12/2017
hearing, following the proper notice procedure, in order for the parties in interest to 
have the opportunity to address any misrepresentation of fact or non-compliance issue.
(D)
Appoint Members
The BoCC shall appoint members of the Board of Adjustment and Planning 
Commission.
(E)
Retain Experts
The BoCC may consider the qualifications of, contract with, and retain technical experts 
to assist in the review of proposals submitted pursuant to this Code.
(F)
Delegate Powers
The BoCC may delegate powers, duties, and responsibilities to the Planning 
Commission, Board of Adjustment, other boards and commissions or committees, and 
County staff to the extent permitted by law and provided that the delegation is made 
subject to specific instruction, criteria, and standards to guide the exercise of any 
delegated discretion.
(G)
Impose Reasonable Conditions
The BoCC may impose reasonable conditions upon approval of any application.
(H)
Interpret this Code and Hear Appeals
The BoCC is the ultimate interpreter of the meaning and application of this Code as to 
the type, nature and rights of uses, conforming and nonconforming, as allowed under 
this Code. Except for those procedures expressly prescribed for appealing of certain 
administrative decisions, all interpretations or applications by the PCD Director as they 
relate to uses under this Code and believed to be erroneous or inapplicable may be 
appealed to the BoCC.
(I)
Grant Waivers
The BoCC, at a public hearing on a specific application, may hear the request for a waiver 
from the subdivision design standards of Chapters 6, 7 and 8 and decide to accept or 
reject the request, or make modifications to the waiver request.
2.2.2. 
Planning Commission
(A)
Establishment, Membership, and Rules of Procedure
The BoCC shall appoint a Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall 
consist of 9 commission members. Each member shall be a resident of El Paso 
County. The Planning Commission shall meet once a month or as often as deemed 
necessary for the transaction of business. The authority of the Planning 

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0004]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 4
Effective 12/12/2017
Commission to conduct its activities, the process for appointment, and the terms of 
its members are provided in the bylaws of the Planning Commission and by State 
Statute. The Planning Commission may adopt policies and procedures as it may 
consider necessary or advisable to discharge its statutory functions, and it shall 
keep a record of its proceedings
(B)
Authority
All decisions of the Planning Commission constitute a recommendation to the 
BoCC, except those relating to the Master Plan, approval of location, and site 
approval applications. The Planning Commission, through the authority granted to 
it by the BoCC and State Statute, is empowered to do the following with respect to 
administration of this Code.
(1)
Develop and Adopt a Master Plan
The Planning Commission may develop and adopt a Master Plan for the 
physical development of the unincorporated area of the County in 
accordance with the provisions of C.R.S. §30-28-106.
(2)
Review and Act Upon Applications for Amendment to the Master Plan
The Planning Commission may review and approve any amendment to the 
Master Plan, whether initiated by the County or any citizen or group.
(3)
Develop and Adopt a Zoning Plan
The Planning Commission may develop and make a zoning plan or plans for 
zoning all or part of the unincorporated territory within the County 
including potential amendments to this Code including text and maps 
representing those applicable policies identified in the Master Plan. Any 
regulation or amendment shall be subject to the review and formal 
adoption by the BoCC.
(4)
Develop Subdivision Regulations
The Planning Commission may develop, propose, and recommend subdivision 
regulations and amendments to subdivision regulations.
(5)
Review and Act Upon Applications for Approval of Location of Public 
Facilities
The Planning Commission may review and act upon applications for the 
approval of location for a public building, way, place, or space in 
accordance with the provisions of CRS §30-28-110
(6)
Retain Experts

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0005]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 5
Effective 12/12/2017
The Planning Commission may consider the qualifications of, contract 
with, and retain technical experts to assist in the review of proposals 
submitted pursuant to this Code.
(7)
Make Recommendations on Applications
The Planning Commission may review and make recommendations 
concerning applications for zoning text and map amendments, special use 
permits, variance of use applications and subdivisions of land and any other 
applications as identified in this Code, State Statute and the Procedures 
Manual.
(8)
Recommend or Impose Reasonable Conditions Upon Approvals
The Planning Commission may recommend reasonable conditions for 
approval of any application where the Planning Commission acts as a 
recommender and may impose reasonable conditions on approval of any 
application where the Planning Commission acts as a decision maker.
2.2.3. Board of Adjustment
(A)
Establishment, Membership, and Rules of Procedure
The BoCC shall appoint a Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment is 
established by resolution of the BoCC pursuant to State Statutes. The Board of 
Adjustment shall consist of 5 members. Each member shall be a legal resident of El 
Paso County. The Board of Adjustment shall meet once a month or as often as 
necessary for the transaction of its business. The meetings shall be noticed and 
open to the public.. The affirmative vote of at least 4 members is required for any 
action by the Board of Adjustment regarding an appeal or application.
(B)
Authority
The Board of Adjustment shall hear and determine appeals of general relief 
decisions and dimensional variances in accordance with this Code the Procedures 
Manual, or as established by Colorado law. Decisions of the Board of Adjustment may 
not be appealed to the BoCC, but shall be appealed pursuant to State Statute and 
State Rules of Civil Procedure. The Board of Adjustment, through the authority 
granted to it by C.R.S. §30-28-117 and C.R.S. §30-28-118 and this Code, is 
empowered to do the following with respect to administration of this Code.
(1)
Grant Variances
The Board of Adjustment may grant or deny a variance pursuant to the 
requirements and procedures of this Code relating to special physical 
requirements, but not to use, of the property.
(2)
Hear and Decide Appeals of Administrative Determinations
The Board of Adjustment may hear and decide appeals brought by any 
aggrieved person regarding allegations of error by an administrative 
official in the application or enforcement of this Code.
(3)
Impose Reasonable Conditions

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0006]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 6
Effective 12/12/2017
The Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable conditions on approval of 
any application.
2.2.4. PCD Director
(A)
Designation
The PCD Director is designated as the official charged with the administration of the 
LDC.
(B)
Powers and Duties
The PCD Director, through the authority granted by this Code, the County 
Administrator and the BoCC, is empowered to do the following with respect to 
administration of this Code.
(1)
Render Interpretations
The PCD Director may render interpretations of all provisions of this Code. 
Interpretations applicable to 2 or more properties (general interpretation) 
shall be collected and retained by the PCD and made available to the public 
for inspection. Each general interpretation shall be provided to the Planning 
Commission, Board of Adjustment and BoCC.
(2)
Establish Application Requirements
The PCD Director may establish application and submittal requirements and 
schedules for review of applications and appeals pursuant to this Code.
(3)
Provide Advice
The PCD Director may provide expert technical assistance to the BoCC, the 
Planning Commission, and the Board of Adjustment and determine when 
outside, technical expertise is needed to assist in the review of any 
development application submitted pursuant to this Code.
(4)
Review Applications
The PCD Director may review development applications and make 
recommendations to the BoCC, the Planning Commission, and the 
Board of Adjustment concerning compliance with this Code.
(5)
Maintain Master Plan
The PCD Director may maintain the Master Plan including, but not 
limited to, land use, transportation, and open space elements.
(6)
Administer Standards and Regulations
The PCD Director may administer the provisions of this Code as they relate 
to the review and permitting of development.
(7)
Promulgate Administrative Forms
The PCD Director may promulgate and require the use of application 
forms and other standardized documentation deemed necessary or 
helpful to administer the provisions of this Code.
(8)
Make Administrative Decisions

[PHYSICAL PAGE 0007]
El Paso County, Colorado                                                                                                                  Land Development Code
Administration – Chapter 2-Page 7
Effective 12/12/2017
The PCD Director may issue written administrative decisions concerning the 
application of this Code to specific property or development applications, 
including any grant of relief allowed by this LDC
(9)
Issue Administrative Permits
The PCD Director may review and issue administrative permits pursuant to 
the requirements and procedures of this Code.
(10)
Sign Plats and Other Administrative Documents
The PCD Director may sign plats and other documents relating to the 
application of this Code to specific property or development applications.
(11)
Interpret Maps and Regulatory Documents
The PCD Director may interpret maps and regulatory documents for their 
applicability to a development application, and consult with any other 
agencies in that interpretation. 
(12)
Delegate Decision Making Authority
The PCD Director may delegate decision making authority to staff on 
development applications, maps, or other matters in accordance with the 
decision-making procedures of the LDC.

