 
 
 
1-2 | ARTICLE 1 | CITY OF FORT COLLINS - LAND USE CODE 
 
     ARTICLE 1 – GENERAL PURPOSE and PROVISIONS 
DIVISION 1.2 TITLE, PURPOSE, AND AUTHORITY 
1.2.1 TITLE  
The provisions contained herein shall be known,  
cited and referred to as the "City of Fort Collins Land Use Code," the "Land Use Code," the “LUC,” or as 
referenced in the Land Use Code, the “Code.” 
1.2.2 PURPOSE  
The purpose of this Code is to improve and protect the public health, safety, and welfare by furthering one or 
more of the following considerations with respect to proposed development:  
(A) Ensuring that all growth and development which occurs is consistent with this Code, and in general 
alignment with City Plan and its adopted elements, including, but not limited to, the Structure Plan, 
Principles and Policies, and associated sub-area plans. 
 
(B) Implementing the vision of the Housing Strategic Plan that everyone in Fort Collins has healthy, stable 
housing they can afford. 
 
(C) Supporting Our Climate Future goals to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, 
provide renewable electricity, and achieve zero waste. 
 
(D) Encouraging innovation and responsive design solutions in land development and redevelopment.  
 
(E) Fostering the safe and efficient use of the land, the city's transportation infrastructure, and other public 
facilities and services.    
 
(F) Ensuring the provision of adequate public facilities and services such as transportation (streets, bicycle 
routes, sidewalks and mass transit), water, wastewater, storm drainage, fire and emergency services, 
police, electricity, open space, recreation, and public parks.  
 
(G) Avoiding the inappropriate development of lands and providing for adequate drainage and reduction 
of flood damage.   
 
(H) Encouraging efficient and functional patterns of land use which decrease reliance on automobile travel 
and encourage trip consolidation.  
 
(I) Increasing public safety, availability, and access to mass transit, sidewalks, trails, bicycle routes and 
other alternative modes of transportation. 
 
(J) Minimizing adverse impacts of development on natural systems and the environment.   
 
(K) Improving the design, quality and character of development.   
 
(L) Fostering a more integrated and purposeful development pattern that incorporates a resilient balance 
of uses.   
 
