=== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 7 ===
11.1 The Board, or the Director through an executive determination, may refer violations ofthis 
Ordinance to the County Attorney's Office for application to the courts for an administrative entry and 
seizure warrant for the removal ofthe unsafe building or structure pursuant to Section 12 of this 
Ordinance. Ifa building or structure has been deemed unsafe only through application of Section 4.9 
(2)( c ), the application for an administrative entry and seizure warrant may only request authorization to 
secure the unsafe building or structure against entry by trespassers and transients. 
11.2 Upon obtaining an administrative entry and seizure warrant, the Director shall have the authority to 
remove or secure the unsafe building or structure by and through County forces, contract, or otherwise. If 
thP f'\\ltnPr f'!ll11c tn n!llu thi::> £'ru;:•t nf '1Pf"11rino- n.r rPmnlMol ur-ithin t ... n /10\ ...... 1.,..... .-1,.r ,-1,.,,.,, ,.Ft.or +hon;..,.,.,..+,... .. 
ua.......... u ..... ...........,.HJ yu.J '-H"' "''-'"'" ...... ........, ..... H.Lf; VI ...... UV1'U.I HI'-llJ.U """'.... \.lV} ""'"n.... uu.UJ. UU.J<3 u.1 ....... 1 
l.11..... .IJIJ. .....'-'LVI  
mails an invoice for such cost, the whole cost thereof, including five percent ( 5~/o) for inspection and 
incidental costs in connection therewith; may be assessed upon the lot, p3_rcel or tract from which such 
unsafe building or structure has been removed or upon which such unsafe building or structure has been 
secured. Any assessment pursuant to this subsection 11.2 shall be a lien against such lot or tract of land 
until paid and shall have priority over all other liens except general taxes and prior special assessments. 
11.3 In case the assessment prescribed in subsection 11.2 above is not paid within thirty (30) calendar 
days from the date ofremoval of or securing such unsafe building or structure by El Paso County, such 
assessment may be certified to the El Paso County Treasurer, who shall collect the assessment, together 
with a ten percent (I0%) penalty for the cost of collection, in the same manner as other taxes are 
collected. The laws of the State of Colorado for assessment and collection of generai taxes, inciuding the 
laws for the sale arid redemption of propert"y for taxes, shall apply to the collection of assessn1ents 
pursuant to tJ1is subsection 11.3. 
Section 12: Administrative Entry and Seizure Warrant. 
12.1 No entry upon private property for the purpose ofthe removal or securing of an unsafe building or
 structure shall be made until an administrative entry and seizure warrant has been obtained from a court
 of competent jurisdiction.
12.2 A sworn or affirmed affidavit shall be prepared and submitted to the court which shall establish the 
factuai basis for the warrant, inciuding a reasonabiy specific description of the location ofthe property, a 
description ofthe unsafe buiiding or structure to be removed from the property or secured, evidence that 
the owner has received notice ofthe violation and has failed to remove or secure the unsafe building or 
structure within a reasonable prescribed period oftime, and the proposed method of disposal of such 
unsafe building or structure if applicable. Said affidavit shall be accompanied by a copy of this 
Ordinance. 
12.3 Within ten (10) calendar days following the date of issuance of an administrative entry and seizure w
arrant, such warrant shall be executed in accordance with directions by the issuing court, a copy of such i
ssued warrant shall be provided or mailed first class to the owner, and proof of the execution of such 
warrant shall be submitted to the issuing court.
Section13: Safety Clause. 
The Board hereby finds, determines, and declares that this Ordinance is necessary for the health, safety, 
and welfare of the citizens of El Paso County, Colorado. 
Section14: Severability Clause. 
