DRAFT FOR DISCUSSION ONLY - 
SUBJECT TO FURTHER REVIEW AND REVISION 
- 3 - 
 
Sec. 5-371. - Amendments and Deletions to the 2025 Colorado Wildfire Resiliency 
Code. 
 
The 2025 Colorado Wildfire Resiliency Code as adopted in § 5-370 is amended as 
follows: 
 
1. 
Section 101.1 Title is amended to read as follows: 
 
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Colorado Wildfire Resiliency 
Code as adopted by [NAME OF JURISDICTION]the City of Fort Collins, hereinafter 
referred to as “this code.” 
2. 
Section 102.9 Historic Structures is amended to read as follows:  
 
102.9. Historic Structures. A variance modification is authorized to be issued for the 
repair or rehabilitation of a historic structure or construction of a contributing structure 
upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the 
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure, and the variance modification 
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the 
structure, within the spirit of this code.  
Exception: Within wildfire hazard areas, historic structures that do not meet one 
or more of the following designations: 
1. Listed or preliminarily determined to be eligible for listing in the National 
Register of Historic Places.  
2. Determined as contributing to the historical significance of a registered 
historic district or a district preliminarily determined to qualify as an historic 
district.  
3. Designated as historic under a state or local historic preservation program. 
 
3. 
Section 102.9.1 Historic preservation exemption is deleted in its entirety. 
 
102.9.1 Historic preservation exemption. The authority having jurisdiction may 
establish a historic preservation exemption or exemptions in their jurisdiction that 
consists of the spirit and intent of this code. 
 
4. 
Section 102.10 Work exempt from permit under this code is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
102.10 Work exempt from permit under this code. Exemptions from code 
requirements shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in 
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances 
of the jurisdiction. Compliance with this code shall not be required for the following: 
1. 
Interior alterations of existing structures. 
