Executive Order D 2026 018 
September 11, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
land southeast of Trinidad. The Sheep Pen Fire started on private land southeast of Kim. The 
High Fence Fire started on private land east of Branson. The Gotera Fire started on private land 
northeast of Branson. The Fires exhibited active to extreme fire behavior while burning on steep 
slopes and terrain that limited access by fire resources.  Much of the Fires were inaccessible by 
vehicles and required handcrews which are in extremely short supply. 
On August 13, 2026, at approximately 1:30 PM, the Lieutenant Governor, acting as 
Governor, verbally declared a disaster emergency due to the Fires in Las Animas County, 
activated the State of Colorado Emergency Operations Plan, and directed the Office of 
Emergency Management (OEM) to take all necessary and appropriate State actions to assist the 
affected jurisdictions with their fire suppression, response, consequence management, mitigation, 
and recovery efforts. At the same time, the Lieutenant Governor, acting as Governor, verbally 
authorized employing unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard to respond to the Fires 
by providing fire suppression and response efforts. As of August 17, 2026, the Sheep Pen, High 
Fence, and Gotera Fires had burned a combined 858 acres in Las Animas County and were 100% 
contained. As of September 8, 2026 the Post Fire had burned 4,335 acres and was 90% 
contained.    
 
Declarations and Directives 
A. 
The Fires and associated impacts constitute a disaster emergency under C.R.S. § 
24-33.5-701, et seq. The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of August 13, 2026, 
declaring a disaster emergency, is hereby memorialized by this Executive Order 
and shall have the full force and effect of law as if it were contained within this 
Executive Order. 
B. 
The Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of August 13, 2026, activated the State 
Emergency Operations Plan. All State departments and agencies are authorized to 
take whatever actions may be required and requested by the Director or their 
delegate of the Office of Emergency Management pursuant to the State 
Emergency Operations Plan, including provision of appropriate staff and 
equipment, as necessary. 
C. 
Further, pursuant to C.R.S. § 28-3-104, this Executive Order hereby memorializes 
the Lieutenant Governor’s verbal order of August 13, 2026, authorizing 
employing unarmed members of the Colorado National Guard to support fire 
suppression and response efforts as deemed necessary by the CDPS for the Fires, 
and the Lieutenant Governor’s verbal authorization has the full force and effect of 
law as if it were contained within this Executive Order. 
 
