D 2026 004 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Enhancing Coloradans’ Access to Healthy Choices 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution, I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order enhancing Coloradans’ 
access to healthy choices. 
 
Background and Purpose 
Increasing access to healthy foods and activities is critical to improving Coloradans’ 
health and quality of life and reducing health care costs. Five of the top ten causes of death in 
Colorado—heart disease, cancer, stroke, diabetes, and chronic liver disease—are strongly 
influenced by diet. A healthier diet and regular physical activity can help prevent, delay, and 
manage chronic diseases, while also improving sleep, enhancing immunity, and contributing to 
mental health.    
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in 2021, 38.1% of 
Coloradans consumed fruit less than one time per day, and 18.6% of Coloradans consumed 
vegetables less than one time per day. Americans receive 55% of our daily caloric intake from 
ultra-processed foods, including sweetened beverages. According to 2023 CDC data, only 35.4% 
of adults in Colorado met federal physical activity guidelines in the past 30 days.                                  
Colorado has a wealth of opportunities and resources to improve these statistics. 
Colorado agricultural and food producers supply healthy, affordable foods. These resources 
include more than 50 farmers’ markets across the State and more than 200 farms, ranches, and 
roadside stands selling locally sourced ingredients directly to consumers listed in the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture’s Farm Fresh Directory. Our State is also known for outdoor 
recreation and active lifestyles, due to our geography and ethos. The Colorado outdoor recreation 
industry contributed $18.1 billion and 138,000 jobs to the State’s economy in 2024, which helps 
more Coloradans enjoy outdoor activities. State agencies can pursue and implement policies that 
encourage residents to take advantage of these resources and engage in healthy habits.   
With health care costs rising for individuals and families across Colorado, it is more 
critical than ever to focus on prevention. Healthier nutrition and behavior lead to lower health 
and dental insurance premiums for all of us. Through this Executive Order, the State is using a  
 
