Executive Order D 2026 004 
May 21, 2026 
Page 3 of 9 
 
 
1. Promote and expand its Colorado Proud School Meal Month program and 
increase student, school, and school district participation by 10% statewide 
from 2025 to 2026, furthering statewide access to local agricultural products 
in the month of October. 
 
2. Pursue efforts to lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and 
underserved areas of the State by providing technical assistance to small 
food retailers, farmers, and distributors to fully utilize the expanded 
Community Food Access tax credit and maximize its impact. 
E. 
The Colorado Department of Human Services (CDHS) shall: 
1. Continue to advocate for federal approval of Colorado’s application for its 
pending Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) hot foods 
waiver that would allow SNAP participants to use their benefits to purchase 
hot foods at grocery stores, including nutritionally-dense options such as 
rotisserie chicken. 
2. Enhance the geographic diversity of SNAP incentives, such as Double Up 
Food Bucks and Electronic Healthy Incentives Program (eHIP), by engaging 
retailers in all regions of the State, subject to available appropriations. 
3. Improve the Colorado SNAP Bonus program, or Electronic Healthy 
Incentives Program (eHIP), subject to available funding. The program issues 
electronic incentives on SNAP EBT cards to subsidize fruits and vegetables 
purchased with SNAP EBT cards, incentivizing individuals to choose 
healthy foods. 
4. Conduct a robust analysis of the outcomes of Colorado’s SNAP Healthy 
Choice Waiver (Project), including across states with other similar waivers 
if that data is available, if it is federally approved and the State Board of 
Human Services adopts rules implementing the Project. This evaluation will 
include the following information to the extent feasible: 
a) Results of participant surveys regarding: 
(1) Meals and foods eaten outside the home or with foods not 
purchased at SNAP authorized retailers; 
