Executive Order D 2026 004 
May 21, 2026 
Page 5 of 9 
 
 
6. Report on the rates of obesity, underweight, and healthy weight among 
youth in the custody of the Division of Youth Services to the general public 
on a quarterly basis. 
F. 
The Behavioral Health Administration shall develop a plan to support CDHS, 
CDA, Colorado Department of Education (CDE), and Colorado Department of 
Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) in their statewide outreach to promote 
education on nutrient-dense diets and their impacts on both emotional resilience 
and physical health by July 1, 2026. 
G. 
The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment (CDLE) shall partner with 
CDE to expand the reach of apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs 
related to healthy food occupations with a goal of increasing apprenticeship 
placements by 35% by January 31, 2027, which the Chef Ann Foundation and 
Healthy School Food Pathway programs will support. 
H. 
The Department of Health Care Policy and Financing (HCPF) shall: 
1. Collaborate with the Office of eHealth Innovation to design, fund and 
implement the next generation of the Colorado Social Health Information 
Exchange (CoSHIE) to help Regional Accountable Entities (RAEs) and 
Medicaid providers connect members to community nutrition resources, 
support, and programs, with a target implementation date of 2028. 
2. Provide education and training for Managed Care Entities and RAEs on 
health-related social services twice annually, beginning in July 2026. 
I. 
The Department of Natural Resources (DNR), shall encourage and work in 
collaboration with Colorado Parks and Wildlife (CPW) to: 
1. Promote the health benefits of outdoor activities like hunting, fishing, 
hiking, wildlife photography, cycling and many other forms of outdoor 
recreation and message that hunting and fishing provides a more sustainable 
option for fresh, lean, organic, and healthy sources of protein by sharing fish 
and game recipes across a variety of CPW outlets, including in the Colorado 
Outdoors magazine’s September and October 2026 issues, statewide social 
media accounts, and related hunting and fishing focused eNewsletters, 
beginning in June 2026. 
 
