Executive Order D 2026 004 
May 21, 2026 
Page 7 of 9 
 
L. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA), Division of Insurance, shall 
evaluate the annual insurance premium savings from healthy lifestyle changes 
such as smoking cessation and communicate their findings by June 30, 2026. 
M. 
The Department of Revenue (DOR) shall implement a Colorado Proud lottery 
scratch ticket celebrating Colorado grown delicious and healthy Palisade peaches, 
Rocky Ford cantaloupe, Olathe sweet corn, and Pueblo chiles with a target launch 
date of September 2026. 
N. 
The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) shall: 
1. Identify opportunities to expand investments in bike lanes and safe 
pedestrian access. 
2. Prioritize future investments that close gaps in the active transportation 
network and complete an inventory of active transportation projects on 
state-owned facilities throughout Colorado, as part of the Active 
Transportation Plan, by July 31, 2026. 
O. 
The Office of Economic Development and International Trade (OEDIT) shall, in 
alignment with Colorado’s Outdoors Strategy, create a plan for emphasizing 
healthy habits and activities within their Rural Technical Assistance Program 
(RTAP) and Colorado State Outdoor Recreation Grant Program (COSORG), as 
well as the broader activities of the Outdoor Recreation Office, by July 1, 2026. 
This plan should: assess existing metrics about the effectiveness of these 
programs in promoting healthy activities and lifestyles; propose new actions that 
OEDIT can take; and identify any additional metrics which should be used to 
measure success. 
P. 
The Colorado Department of Corrections (CDOC) shall evaluate the daily 
nutritional intake of all inmates to ensure a nourishing and well-balanced diet, 
including healthier alternative options, and add diet and nutrition curriculum to 
courses offered to inmates by July 1, 2026, and report on the rates of obesity, 
underweight, and healthy weight among inmates to the general public on a 
quarterly basis. 
Q. 
The Colorado Department of Early Childhood (CDEC) shall disseminate to 
childcare centers quarterly (every 3 months) recommendations from CDPHE’s 
Colorado Food Program regarding seasonal healthy foods and nutrition, beginning 
on July 1, 2026. 
