Executive Order D 2026 004 
May 21, 2026 
Page 8 of 9 
 
R. 
The Colorado Department of Education (CDE) is strongly encouraged to: 
1. Support healthy habits and student well-being by expanding access to 
nutritious school breakfasts and the use of Colorado-grown foods in the 
School Breakfast Program, National School Lunch Program, and Healthy 
School Meals for All Program, beginning in the 2026-2027 school year, 
with the goal of increasing the number of schools offering alternative 
breakfast service models by 10% and the number of school districts that 
spend more than 20% of their total food service budget on local foods and 
feature local products on menus at least once a month. 
2. Support targeted outreach and marketing efforts for healthy foods, including 
building a diverse library of images that represent school meal programs 
across the State, promoting district success stories, marketing school 
nutrition professional development opportunities, elevating partnerships 
with Colorado producers, highlighting the use of local foods and increasing 
awareness of innovative meal service models, beginning in the 2026-2027 
school year. 
3. Through the expansion of the Local Food Program through Healthy School 
Meals for All and the passing of Propositions LL and MM, provide school 
districts access to up to $18 million annually to spend on local foods for 
their school meal programs, support local agriculture, and strengthen student 
voices, beginning in July 2026. 
S. 
The Colorado Department of Higher Education (CDHE) shall coordinate with 
public colleges and universities across the State to increase participation and 
further programs supporting healthy lifestyles, including: 
1. Building a broad, talented, and engaged agricultural and food workforce 
through the national Together We Grow consortium, which works with 
Coloradans, companies, non-governmental organizations, universities, and 
government agencies committed to building a modern food and agricultural 
workforce that reflects the communities in which we live and work, based at 
the CSU Spur campus in Denver; 
2. Increasing enrollment in the Food Studies degree program at Adams State 
University; 
 
