 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
Pet Animal Care and Facilities Act 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
The Pet Animal Care and Facilities Act (PACFA) 
requires any facility used to keep pet animals for 
the purpose of adoption, breeding, boarding, 
grooming, handling, selling, sheltering, trading or 
otherwise transferring such animals to obtain a 
license from the Commissioner of Agriculture 
(Commissioner). Pet animals include dogs, cats, 
rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, rats, gerbils, 
ferrets, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians and 
invertebrates. 
 
Why is it regulated? 
The purpose of PACFA is to license facilities where 
pet animals are bred, housed and groomed to 
protect the public and the animals in the care of 
these facilities. Specifically, enforcement of PACFA 
can help protect animal welfare and stop or 
mitigate the spread of communicable diseases, 
including those that may be transmitted from 
animals to humans.  
 
Who is regulated? 
In calendar year 2023, the Commissioner licensed a 
total of 3,085 pet animal facilities.  
 
How is it regulated? 
The Commissioner has delegated enforcement to 
the PACFA section of the Animal Welfare Division in 
the Colorado Department of Agriculture (CDA). The 
agency inspects facilities before issuing a license, 
periodically after a license is issued and when a 
concern or complaint regarding a facility arises.  
 
Also, the Pet Animal Advisory Committee, which 
includes members of the regulated community, 
animal enforcement, a veterinarian and public 
members, provides guidance to the agency 
regarding rulemaking and regulatory matters. 
 
 
What does it cost? 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Commissioner expended 
$1,246,126 and dedicated 10 full-time equivalent 
employees to the licensing program under PACFA. 
 
What enforcement activity is there? 
From 2020 to 2024, the Commissioner took 39 total 
enforcement 
actions: 
6 
license 
revocations, 
surrenders or voluntary relinquishments; 1 license 
suspension; 10 stipulated agreements; and 18 
license denials. Also, the Commissioner sought 4 
permanent injunctions or contempt of court orders. 
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue PACFA for 15 years, until 
2041. 
 
• Amend the Advisory Committee 
membership by repealing committee 
seats reserved for specific license 
categories and, instead, require the 
Commissioner to appoint 
representatives from 10 separate 
license categories. 
 
• Codify the Commissioner’s rule 
concerning veterinary certificates of 
health requirements for the 
importation of pet animals into the 
state. 
