 
 
10 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Regulation of pet animal and psittacine bird dealerships was originally enacted in 
Colorado to protect humans from zoonotic diseases. The program was established in 
the Department of Health (now the Department of Public Health and Environment) after 
a Greeley woman died in 1957 from psittacosis, a rare bacterial infection that she 
contracted from her parakeet. 
 
In 1983, the program was expanded to include animal pounds, shelters and boarding 
kennels. The Department of Health established rules for facilities that addressed 
standards for sanitation, humane care and operations. Under this program, 
enforcement actions were limited, and a 1993 sunset review recommended that the 
licensing and inspection functions of the Department of Health sunset until a better 
regulatory mechanism could be developed. 
 
The following year, the Pet Animal Care and Facilities Act (PACFA) was adopted, and 
the Colorado Department of Agriculture was charged with oversight. As recommended 
by an industry task force, the law required a license for any person to sell, transfer, 
adopt, breed, board, train, groom, shelter or rescue pet animals, which included dogs, 
cats, birds, rabbits, ferrets, reptiles and fish. 
 
In 2001, the Pet Overpopulation Authority was added to PACFA. The primary purpose of 
the Pet Overpopulation Authority was to emphasize the importance of spaying and 
neutering pets to control pet overpopulation and to act as fiduciary for the Pet 
Overpopulation Fund, which was funded through an income tax check-off. 
 
Among other recommendations, a 2008 sunset review recommended that PACFA 
develop written policies and guidelines for inspections, enforcement and discipline. 
 
