 
 
28 | P a g e 
9 percent, respectively; however, over the five-year period, they increased 23 and 6 
percent. 
 
The decline of pet animal rescues in 2020 was due to the creation of two new license 
types for large animal rescues and commercial pet animal facilities, which resulted in 
the licensing category for pet animal rescues being divided into three categories: small, 
large and commercial. 
 
The number of bird breeder licenses increased by 23 percent during this period.  
 
Small and large animal shelters increased by 28 and 67 percent, respectively, over the 
five-year period. Some of the small shelters were created when licensed rescues 
converted their licenses because they were unable to find sufficient foster homes and 
needed to house the animals in a facility setting instead. Some of the growth in large 
shelters is attributed to small shelters that expanded their facilities.  
 
Over the five-year period, the number of reptile and amphibian breeder licenses 
tripled. 
 
While pet grooming facilities increased by 17 percent over the five-year period, the 
number of pet groomers who are independent contractors fluctuated over the five-year 
period and ultimately decreased by 36 percent. Some of the decrease in this license 
type may be due to the agency clarifying that an independent contractor may not be 
supervised by a pet grooming facility. Licensed pet handlers and transporters increased 
51 and 39 percent, respectively.  
 
After a drop in 2020, the total number of licensed pet retailers and wholesalers 
remained relatively unchanged over the five-year period.  
 
 
Inspections 
 
The PACFA licensing program is largely driven by inspections. During an inspection, the 
agency inspects the grounds and the records of a licensed facility. The specific items 
that are inspected vary by the type of facility, but they generally include safety, 
sanitation and records concerning animal history, treatment and incidents. 
 
While pre-license and complaint-based inspections take priority, the program attempts 
to inspect each facility annually. During a complaint-based inspection, the agency 
investigates the allegations that prompted the complaint and may simultaneously 
conduct a routine facility inspection.  
 
The agency has four categories of violations:  
 
• Indirect or minor violations; 
• Repeat indirect or minor violations;  
