 
 
31 | P a g e 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria.  
 
Anyone may file a complaint against a facility. Complaints are often filed by consumers, 
facility staff, animal control officers and other government officials. The agency 
accepts written complaints only, and complaints are filed through a portal on the 
agency’s website. The program prioritizes complaints related to animal welfare first.  
 
The agency does not track the basis of each complaint, so it is unable to provide data 
specific to the total number of complaints by type. 
 
The allegations within the complaints can range from minor to major violations of 
PACFA. Investigations into some of the more serious complaints require significant 
agency resources. In addition to its own investigations, the agency coordinates with 
animal control officers, animal welfare organizations, shelters and other state and law 
enforcement agencies on a regular basis.   
 
The agency often receives health-related complaints from consumers. Complaints are 
also often filed against doggy day care facilities that do not have sufficient staff to 
monitor the number of animals being watched.  
 
It is estimated that approximately 30 percent of complaints pertain to unlicensed 
facilities. For instance, the program often receives complaints related to hoarding, 
especially in rural areas. Urban areas often have limits on the number of dogs and cats 
allowed per household. In Colorado, anyone with more than 15 dogs or cats must be 
licensed as a shelter. Colorado was one of the first states to adopt a threshold law like 
this. At this time, about 10 other states have adopted similar laws. 
 
Cease and desist orders are usually issued when a facility is found to be operating 
without a license. Typically, the agency informs the facility that a license is required 
and allows the facility to come into voluntary compliance by applying for a license. If 
the applicant does not meet PACFA’s standards, the Commissioner denies the license 
and issues a cease and desist order.  
 
PACFA works closely with shelters throughout Colorado to place the animals that need 
to be rehomed in these cases. 
 
Investigations into some of the more egregious cases may present a considerable degree 
of danger for program staff. Investigations may be conducted on private property in 
remote areas of the state. In those cases, an investigator wears protective gear, 
documents the inspection on video and may conduct the investigation with other 
members of staff or with local law enforcement.   
 
Table 8 demonstrates, over a five-year period, the total number of complaints received 
by the agency during each year and the results of these complaints. 
 
