 
 
39 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue PACFA for 15 years, until 2041. 
 
The Pet Animal Care and Facilities Act (PACFA) is located in Article 80 of Title 35 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The Commissioner of Agriculture (Commissioner) in 
the Department of Agriculture is vested with the authority to administer and enforce 
PACFA. While Colorado began regulating some pet animal facilities in the 1950s, the 
statute that establishes the current regulatory program was enacted in 1994. The 
purpose of PACFA is to protect animal welfare by licensing and inspecting facilities that 
breed, groom, train, board, rescue, shelter and sell pet animals.  
 
Under PACFA, pet animals are:77 
 
Dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, rats, gerbils, ferrets, 
birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians, and invertebrates, or any other species 
of wild or domestic or hybrid animal sold, transferred, or retained for 
the purpose of being kept as a household pet. 
 
Regardless of their use, animals associated with farms and ranches are specifically 
excluded from the definition of pet animals,78 including:79 
 
• Cattle,  
• Horses,  
• Mules,  
• Burros,  
• Sheep,  
• Llamas, and  
• Goats. 
 
The first sunset criterion questions whether regulation is necessary to protect the 
health, safety and welfare of the public.  
 
In Colorado, protecting pet animals and consumers of pet animal care and facilities is 
a matter of considerable interest. The public policy of the state has supported the 
regulation of the pet animal industry for several decades, and Coloradans continue to 
 
77 § 35-80-102(10), C.R.S. 
78 § 35-80-102(10), C.R.S. 
79 § 35-80-102(9), C.R.S. 
