 
 
40 | P a g e 
have a strong interest in the animals they often consider to be companions or family 
members and the welfare of these animals when they are being cared for by others.  
 
Pet animal facilities are regulated in Colorado to prevent and mitigate the spread of 
disease not only from pet to pet, but also from pet to human. In settings such as 
boarding facilities and shelters, pets are especially susceptible to communicable 
diseases. The Commissioner’s rules establish standards for these facilities to control 
the spread of disease, and the program’s inspectors enforce these standards by 
conducting inspections and endeavoring to bring facilities into compliance with the 
standards.  
 
In addition to disease control, pet animal facilities are also regulated to protect the 
welfare of the pets in their care and to protect the humans that bring them into their 
homes and families. 
 
Colorado annually imports thousands of pet animals from other states, which increases 
the potential for the spread of diseases. At one time, certain diseases, such as brucella 
canis, heartworm and parvo virus were low or nonexistent in the state. However, the 
incidence of these diseases is growing in Colorado. 
 
To reduce the impact of these and other communicable diseases, the Commissioner has 
strengthened the rules adopted under PACFA, and the agency works with other agencies 
and jurisdictions, such as the Department of Public Health and Environment, the 
Department of Natural Resources and local animal control agencies to address possible 
public health issues. 
 
PACFA protects the public by requiring pet animal facilities to be licensed and 
inspected. As the agency regulates several different types of facilities, inspections are 
complicated. Some facilities are large operations run by employees that transfer 
thousands of animals a year, and others are small non-profits run by volunteers out of 
their homes. Inspectors must be knowledgeable about disease control, animal control, 
animal welfare and the wide variety of animal species that Coloradans keep as pets. 
Additionally, inspectors must navigate complicated interpersonal relations and 
cooperate with animal welfare advocates, consumers, local animal control officers, 
officials from other state agencies and jurisdictions, pet animal businesses and non-
profit organizations.  
 
When violations are uncovered during an inspection, the inspector provides the facility 
an opportunity to correct any issues prior to a follow-up inspection. Inspectors work 
with facilities to bring them into compliance. However, if a facility fails to conform 
with PACFA standards or continually violates the terms of its license, the Commissioner 
may take steps to initiate an enforcement action against the license.  
 
The agency has seven full-time equivalent employees who conduct inspections and 
investigations of Colorado pet animal facilities. In 2025, the agency licensed over 3,000 
pet animal facilities, but the agency attempts to inspect each licensed facility at least 
