 
 
41 | P a g e 
once each year. In addition to annual inspections, the agency also conducts pre-license 
inspections, complaint-based inspections and follow-up inspections. In 2024, the agency 
conducted inspections on at least 80 percent of all licensed facilities. If a licensed 
facility does not receive an annual inspection, the agency prioritizes an inspection at 
the facility the following year. 
 
It should also be noted that when PACFA is continued, so too will the Colorado Pet 
Overpopulation Authority (Pet Overpopulation Authority), the Pet Overpopulation Fund 
(CPOF) and the Pet Animal Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee), each of which 
plays an important role in protecting the welfare of Colorado’s pets. 
 
Under PACFA, when pets are cared for by licensed facilities, Coloradans can be 
reasonably confident that the animals are being treated humanely in healthy settings. 
Without PACFA, animal welfare would principally fall under the jurisdiction of local law 
enforcement and animal cruelty laws, which is a far different and significantly lower 
level of protection. 
 
The sunset review of PACFA is always contentious, with a considerable amount of 
interest from a wide range of stakeholders. However, most of the issues raised during 
the current sunset review were related to the administration of the program by the 
Commissioner, and only two of these issues resulted in recommendations. The other 
recommendations in the report are proposed to modernize and clean up PACFA. 
Considering this, a 15-year continuation is reasonable. 
 
For these reasons, the General Assembly should continue PACFA for 15 years, until 2041. 
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Amend the Advisory Committee membership by 
repealing the committee seats reserved for specific license categories and 
instead require the Commissioner to appoint representatives from 10 
separate license categories. 
 
The Advisory Committee is authorized under PACFA to provide guidance to the 
Commissioner on rules and the ongoing review of the statute.  
 
The 17 members of the Advisory Committee are appointed by the Commissioner, 
including one seat set aside for a licensed veterinarian, one seat to represent animal 
control officers, three seats to represent the general public. Additionally, one seat is 
set aside to represent each of the following:80 
 
• Animal rescues, 
• Bird breeders, 
• Small scale dog breeders, 
• Large scale dog breeders, 
 
80 § 35-80-115(1), C.R.S. 
