 
 
42 | P a g e 
• Cat breeders, 
• Small animal breeders, 
• Boarding kennels, 
• Dog day care, 
• Pet groomers, 
• Pet animal retailers, 
• Pet animal wholesalers, and 
• Animal shelters. 
 
For a variety of reasons, many of the seats reserved for specific license types often 
remain open. For instance, the Commissioner has had difficulty finding a cat breeder 
willing to participate in the Advisory Committee. Additionally, some facilities have 
several types of licenses, so one individual could potentially represent more than one 
license type. As the statute is written, however, this is not an option. During the course 
of the sunset review, the agency endeavored to fill several open seats and, during that 
time, at least two committee members resigned. In fact, seven seats were open when 
this report was being drafted.  
 
In addition, since PACFA authorizes the Commissioner to create new categories and 
subcategories of license types, the statute does not include all of the license categories.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or 
enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures and practices. The seventh sunset 
criterion asks, in part, whether the composition of the agency’s board adequately 
represents the public interest. 
 
Since PACFA prescribes the license types to be represented on the Advisory Committee 
and since the Commissioner has had difficulty filling some of those seats, the program’s 
operations are impeded by the lack of a fully constituted Advisory Committee.  
 
Rather than prescribe the license types to be represented on the Advisory Committee, 
it would be more efficient to simply require the Commissioner to appoint 10 members 
who represent specific and distinct license types under PACFA, without naming the 
license types in statute. This flexibility will help the Commissioner find enough 
members to serve to have a fully constituted Advisory Committee. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should amend the Advisory Committee 
membership by repealing the committee seats reserved for specific license categories 
and, instead, require the Commissioner to appoint representatives from 10 separate 
license categories. However, the seats reserved for a veterinarian, an animal control 
representative and three public members should remain.  
 
 
 
