 
 
43 | P a g e 
Recommendation 3 — Specify that Advisory Committee members may serve 
no more than two consecutive terms of four years. 
 
Currently, members of the Advisory Committee are appointed to three-year terms. 
While PACFA does not limit the number of terms that a member may serve on the 
committee, the Commissioner has adopted a policy that limits the members to three 
consecutive terms. 
 
It is generally the public policy of Colorado to limit the number of terms on boards, 
commissions and other governmental bodies. For instance, the Governor is limited to 
two terms, and the members of the General Assembly also have term limits.  
 
Term limits ensure that new people have an opportunity to serve. This can help to 
create a healthier committee because new members bring fresh perspectives, ideas 
and information. 
 
The Advisory Committee only meets twice a year, and the program is somewhat 
complex considering the breadth of the program rules and the various types of facilities 
that it regulates. Because of this, it takes some time for committee members to become 
oriented to the program and the committee meetings. Considering this, terms of three 
years may be too short. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or 
enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures and practices.   
 
Changing the length of members’ terms from three years to four years would allow 
members more time to accrue institutional knowledge. Although diminished somewhat 
by decreasing the number of terms a member may serve, it should also alleviate the 
amount of time the agency would otherwise spend on recruiting and orienting new 
members. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend PACFA by specifying that Advisory 
Committee members may serve no more than two consecutive terms of four years. 
 
 
Recommendation 4 — Codify the Commissioner’s rule concerning veterinary 
certificates of health requirements for the importation of pet animals into 
the state. 
 
Currently, PACFA prohibits importing a cat or a dog into Colorado without a valid 
certificate of veterinary health. This is done to mitigate the spread of communicable 
diseases.  
 
Often, the focus of regulations in PACFA is centered on dogs and cats, likely because 
these are the most popular pets. However, other pets that are imported into Colorado 
also could carry communicable diseases.  
