 
 
44 | P a g e 
To address this concern, the Commissioner has adopted a rule that requires a certificate 
of veterinary health for any pet animal that is imported into the state, except for 
reptiles, fish or rodents. The rule also requires the certificate to have been issued 
within 10 days of the animal’s arrival in Colorado by a veterinarian accredited in the 
state of origin. 
 
The Commissioner’s rule is more comprehensive than PACFA itself and provides 
Colorado with better protection for pets and the humans they live with.  
 
Also, merely having a certificate of veterinary health is insufficient protection for pets 
and the humans who care for them since the older the certificate is, the more likely an 
animal may have been exposed to communicable diseases. Ten days is a reasonable 
amount of time to expect the certificate of health to remain relevant.  
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. While cats and dogs are the most popular pets owned by 
Coloradans, other species of animals also live in close proximity to other animals and 
to humans. As these animals may also carry communicable diseases, it would be 
responsible to require a certificate for these animals too.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should codify the Commissioner’s rule concerning 
veterinary certificates of health requirements for the importation of pet animals to the 
state. 
 
 
Recommendation 5 — Authorize the Commissioner to adopt rules to extend 
the holding period for animals admitted to shelters. 
 
Section 35-80-106.3(1), C.R.S., currently requires an animal shelter to hold a pet animal 
in the custody of the facility for at least five days before the pet animal may be offered 
for adoption or euthanized. If the pet animal does not have a collar, microchip or 
another form of identification and the shelter lacks resources or the pet animal is 
dangerous, the shelter may euthanize the pet animal in three days. Only the days that 
the shelter is open count toward the holding period.  
 
Some stakeholders are concerned that the holding period required under statute may 
not provide an owner with sufficient time to recover a lost pet that has been admitted 
to a shelter, especially if the owner is out of town.  
 
COPRRR does not have any evidence of wrongdoing on the part of any shelters in 
Colorado. Shelters licensed under PACFA generally strive to find homes for the animals 
in their care and to save as many of the animals’ lives as possible. Still, it is possible 
that a shelter may euthanize an animal before the owner contacts the facility to 
retrieve it. However, this situation is more likely to occur if the animal does not have 
any identification, such as a tag or a microchip, on it.  
 
