 
 
45 | P a g e 
As the agency regularly interacts with shelters and other stakeholders, it is the subject 
matter expert on this issue. The agency also collects data on Colorado shelters and 
euthanasia, so it may be able to identify trends and address any necessary changes in 
its rules if necessary.  
 
Considering this, it is reasonable to ensure that the Commissioner has the authority to 
address issues related to the required holding period.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or 
enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures and practices.   
 
As the agency is well positioned to respond to problems identified in relation to this 
issue, the Commissioner should be granted clear authority to extend, by rule, the 
required holding period established in statute. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should authorize the Commissioner to adopt rules to 
extend the holding periods for animals admitted to shelters.  
 
 
Recommendation 6 — Repeal the cap on license fees.  
 
PACFA requires the Commissioner to establish fees based on the actual cost of 
regulation. At the same time, it also limits the amount the Commissioner may charge 
for each license. Since 2003, the limit for a PACFA license has been $700.  
 
The program is funded by license fees. While fee caps provide the regulated community 
with a level of assurance that these costs cannot exceed a certain level and are 
generally viewed as a means to keep government spending from increasing beyond what 
is necessary, they inevitably reduce the resources that the regulator relies on to 
effectively enforce the law.  
 
PACFA requires a variety of facilities, from large shelters to owner-operated groomers, 
to be licensed. However, the fees provide little room to differentiate between the size, 
complexity and the actual cost of regulation of the specific types of facilities. The 
license fees imposed by the agency in fiscal year 23-24 can be found in Table 3. 
 
While the license fees assessed by the Commissioner have not reached the $700 limit 
established in statute, as the cost of regulation increases, the Commissioner will have 
no choice but to increase fees. Inevitably, smaller facilities will bear a disproportionate 
share of the cost of regulation. As of fiscal year 23-24, the difference between the 
license fee for a large animal rescue and a small animal rescue was only $100. This was 
also true for large-scale and small-scale dog breeders. 
 
Other regulatory programs with fee caps have encountered problems when the license 
fees reach the cap. When this occurs, the agency must make difficult decisions about 
how to use the limited resources available. For example, in one such program also 
