 
 
46 | P a g e 
housed in the Department of Agriculture (Department), the Commissioner reduced the 
number of inspectors by half, and a couple of years later, they eliminated the inspectors 
altogether. Clearly, this degraded the effectiveness of the regulatory program.  
 
As the program is driven by inspections, eliminating the inspectors would severely 
impair the program’s ability to protect the public and the animals that the facilities 
serve.  
 
The current fee cap was established in 2003. If it were adjusted for inflation, the fee 
cap would be approximately $1,225 as of the writing of this report. However, simply 
raising the cap to adjust for inflation only serves to recreate the same problem in the 
future. The better course is to repeal the cap altogether. 
 
Repealing the fee cap will not enable the Commissioner to increase fees with abandon. 
The General Assembly will still be required to authorize the Commissioner to raise and 
expend those funds. 
 
However, even if the General Assembly increases the agency’s spending authority, if 
the agency cannot collect sufficient revenue to perform its regulatory responsibilities, 
its effectiveness will be diminished, which will increase the risk of harm to consumers 
and the animals cared for in pet animal facilities. 
 
The second sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the conditions that led to the initial 
creation of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that 
would warrant more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. The fifth 
sunset criterion asks, in part, whether agency operations are impeded by existing 
statutes. 
 
The current fee cap provides the Commissioner with little room to assess license fees 
that correspond to the actual cost of regulation of its various license types. However, 
authorizing fees without the cap would allow the Commissioner to more equitably 
assess these fees. 
 
For these reasons, the General Assembly should repeal the statutory fee cap. 
 
 
Recommendation 7 — Modernize the Commissioner’s fining authority. 
 
The fining authority for the Commissioner was established in 1994 at $1,000, and it has 
not changed since that time.  
 
The second sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the conditions that led to the initial 
creation of the program have changed and whether other conditions have arisen that 
would warrant more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. The fifth 
sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or enhanced 
