 
 
47 | P a g e 
by existing statutes, rules, procedures, and practices. The tenth sunset criterion asks, 
in part, whether disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public interest. 
 
In this case, inflation has served to diminish the effectiveness of the Commissioner’s 
fining authority over the last three decades. In order for fines to continue to be a 
deterrent to violating PACFA and the Commissioner’s rules, the fining authority should 
be updated to reflect the value of the dollar today.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should modernize the fining authority to account for 
inflation by increasing it to $2,500. 
 
 
Recommendation 8 — Establish a time period during which a cease and desist 
order may be contested. 
 
If anyone has violated PACFA or the Commissioner’s rules, the Commissioner is 
authorized to issue an order to cease and desist, and the recipient of a cease and desist 
order may request a prompt hearing to determine whether a violation has occurred. 
 
Interestingly, PACFA does not establish a deadline for the recipient of a cease and desist 
order to request a hearing. While the Commissioner has not had any issues with this in 
recent memory, it could be problematic since it leaves the opportunity for a hearing to 
be requested indefinitely.  
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or 
enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures and practices.   
 
Typically, the statutes that authorize cease and desist orders include a clear time 
period during which a cease and desist order may be challenged. For instance, the 
Department’s Produce Safety Program authorizes the recipient of a cease and desist 
order to request a hearing within 30 days. This allows the recipient a reasonable 
opportunity to challenge the order while still providing the Commissioner with a 
definite date by which a case may be resolved.  
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should amend the authority for a person to request a 
hearing following the receipt of a cease and desist order by requiring the request to be 
submitted within 30 days of the Commissioner issuing the order. 
 
 
Recommendation 9 — Relocate the authorizing statute for the Pet 
Overpopulation Authority. 
 
Unlike other similar organizations, whenever PACFA undergoes sunset review, the Pet 
Overpopulation Fund must also be reviewed and reauthorized. During the sunset review, 
stakeholders were primarily interested in the licensing and enforcement of pet animal 
facilities, and they generally showed little interest in the Pet Overpopulation Fund. In 
