 
 
48 | P a g e 
fact, stakeholders were often surprised that the Pet Overpopulation Fund is authorized 
under PACFA. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. While the mission of PACFA and the Pet Overpopulation 
Fund are similar, the administration of this fund is located outside of the Department, 
and the Commissioner does not have any oversight over the operations of the fund.  
 
Rather than require the Pet Overpopulation Fund to be reviewed and reauthorized 
whenever PACFA undergoes sunset review, this funding mechanism should be moved to 
another section of the Colorado Revised Statutes to appear with other similar programs, 
such as Part 2 of Article 3 of Title 42, which specifically addresses the issuance and 
taxation of license plates. 
 
For these reasons, the General Assembly should relocate the authorizing statute for the 
Pet Overpopulation Authority. 
 
 
Administrative Recommendation 1 — The agency should review the 
Commissioner’s rulemaking authority under PACFA to determine whether 
exceptions to the spay and neuter requirement may be adopted by rule or if 
a statutory change is necessary. 
 
Under PACFA, a shelter or a rescue may only release a dog or a cat for adoption if it 
has been spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian.  
 
Prior to 2019, PACFA allowed a dog or a cat to be released without being spayed or 
neutered if the party adopting the animal paid a deposit fee, in an amount determined 
by rule, which would be forfeit if the animal was not sterilized within 90 days.  
 
While the 2018 sunset review of PACFA recommended no changes to this process, in 
order to address concerns related to pet overpopulation, such as unwanted litters and 
homeless animals, the General Assembly amended the sunset bill by repealing the 
allowance for release with a deposit fee. However, under PACFA, an exception is still 
permissible, via waiver, if a veterinarian determines that the health of the animal 
would be jeopardized by the procedure. 
 
During the current sunset review, some stakeholders raised concerns related to the spay 
and neuter requirement. Specifically, opponents of the current law are concerned 
about health issues that may result from spaying and neutering puppies.  
 
Conversely, proponents of the current law maintain that the health concerns are largely 
unfounded and the benefits of preventing unwanted litters and the problems related to 
pet overpopulation outweigh those concerns. 
 
