 
 
49 | P a g e 
Both opponents and proponents of the current provision have evidence to support their 
positions. Shelters generally support requiring spaying and neutering before adoption 
to prevent overpopulation. Some of the issues related to growth hormones and bone 
growth may be true, but spaying and neutering can also prevent other health issues. 
For example, spaying early prevents cancer in female dogs.   
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded or 
enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, and practices and any other 
circumstances. 
 
While this issue came up during the current sunset review, COPRRR did not have 
sufficient evidence to make a recommendation to amend PACFA or the agency’s rules. 
 
Regardless, the Commissioner has adopted a waiver process, but it may not be flexible 
enough to handle all scenarios. For instance, the waiver process largely applies to 
licensed facilities, as opposed to individuals adopting an animal who have concerns with 
the health implications of the animal being spayed or neutered at an early age.  
 
Consequently, the agency should review its current process, in time for consideration 
during the 2026 legislative session, to determine whether the Commissioner has the 
authority under PACFA to reform the waiver process or whether any statutory changes 
are necessary. 
 
 
Administrative Recommendation 2 — The agency should publish all public 
disciplinary actions, such as license suspensions, restrictions and revocations, 
so that the public may easily access them, including the associated public 
documents, such as final agency orders. 
 
If the Commissioner determines that a pet animal facility has committed any acts that 
are grounds for discipline, PACFA grants the Commissioner the authority to take the 
following actions: 
 
• Issue a letter of admonition, 
• Suspend the license, 
• Refuse to renew the license,  
• Restrict the license, and 
• Revoke the license. 
 
These actions and the associated documents, such as stipulated agreements, are public 
information. At this time, however, the public cannot readily find this information since 
the documents can only be obtained by filing an open records request. While the 
Department may issue a press release when it takes action against a licensee, the 
agency’s website does not provide historical information about previous disciplinary 
actions taken against licensees.  
