 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of Biomass Utilization  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for the program, it is first necessary to recognize what biomass 
utilization is and why it may be important. 
 
Until the 19th century, the U.S. relied upon wood, a renewable energy source, as fuel 
for cooking, heating and lighting. Following this, the country transitioned to coal, 
natural gas and petroleum.2 While the country still relies on fossil fuels, the use of 
renewable energy is growing. In 2023, energy produced from biomass sources, such as 
wood, represented 60 percent of the country’s renewable energy consumption.3 
 
Biomass is organic material derived from plants and animals.4 Biomass utilization refers 
to the use of organic material to make products, such as furniture, and to produce 
energy.5 Energy produced from biomass is sometimes referred to as biomass energy6 or 
bioenergy.7 
 
Organic materials, like wood, crops, vegetable oils, animal fats, solid biogenic 
municipal waste and animal manure, can be used to fuel transportation and to generate 
heat and electricity.8  
 
Firewood, which may be used as fuel for cooking, heating and light, is one example of 
wood products that are used to produce energy. Other examples are:9 
 
• Wood pellets, 
• Wood chips, 
• Lumber and furniture mill sawdust and waste, and 
• Black liquor from wood pulp and paper mills. 
 
2 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Renewable Energy Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/renewable-sources/ 
3 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Renewable Energy Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/renewable-sources/ 
4 Encyclopedia Britannica. Biomass. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from www.britannica.com/technology/biofuel 
5 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
6 U.S. Department of Agriculture. Biomass Energy. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.climatehubs.usda.gov/hubs/international/topic/biomass-energy 
7 National Renewal Energy Laboratory. Biomass Energy Basics. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.nrel.gov/research/re-biomass.html 
8 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
9 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
