 
 
7 | P a g e 
Similarly, forest biomass may also be salvaged. Some examples include waste from 
logging that is not otherwise sellable and excessive woody biomass. 10 Harvesting 
biomass from forests not only helps to reduce dead wood, underbrush and small trees 
that act as fuel for wildfires, it also helps to thin forests and remove diseased and 
infested trees, which results in healthier, more resilient forests.11 
 
Another use for biomass is biochar, a charcoal-like material traditionally obtained from 
burning vegetation in low-oxygen, covered piles. Biochar can help to improve soil 
quality since it reduces erosion and increases water retention, nutrient uptake and 
microbial activity. Today, kilns are used to produce biochar.12 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition. 
 
Biomass is a renewable source that can be produced locally. Along with wind, 
geothermal and solar energy, biomass can be used to establish a diverse portfolio of 
domestic energy13 and strengthen the country’s security and energy independence.14 
 
In 2023, biomass produced five percent of the country’s energy, the majority of which 
was in the form of biofuels, followed by wood and wood waste.15 
 
Nationally, the industrial sector’s share of biomass energy consumption was 45 percent 
in 2023. Firewood and wood pellets were consumed by the commercial and residential 
sectors for heating, and wood and biomass-derived waste were used by the electric 
power sector to produce electricity. The transportation sector, which uses biofuels, 
was the second largest consumer of biomass energy.16 
 
In addition to being an important source of domestic energy, biomass is also an 
important commodity. For instance, U.S. biomass exports of wood fuel pellets in 2023 
totaled 8.6 million tons.17 
 
 
 
 
10 U.S. Department of Energy. Biomass Resources. Retrieved September 23, 2025, from 
www.energy.gov/eere/bioenergy/biomass-resources 
11 U.S. Forest and Rangelands. Woody Biomass Utilization Benefits. Retrieved September 23, 2025, from 
www.forestsandrangelands.gov/woody-biomass/benefits.shtml 
12 U.S. Department of Agriculture. Digging into Biochar. Retrieved September 23, 2025, from  
13 U.S. Forest and Rangelands. Woody Biomass Utilization and the WBUG. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.forestsandrangelands.gov/woody-biomass/overview.shtml 
14 National Renewal Energy Laboratory. Biomass Energy Basics. Retrieved September 23, 2025, from 
www.nrel.gov/research/re-biomass.html 
15 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
16 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
17 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
