 
 
15 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Sunset the biomass utilization grant program. 
 
Biomass is organic material derived from plants and animals. 24 Biomass utilization 
refers to the use of this material to make products, such as furniture, and to produce 
energy.25 Energy produced from biomass is sometimes referred to as biomass energy26 
or bioenergy.27 
 
Organic materials, like wood, crops, vegetable oils, animal fats, solid biogenic 
municipal waste and animal manure, can be used to generate heat and electricity and 
to fuel transportation.28  
 
The General Assembly granted the State Forester the authority to award up to $2.5 
million in grant funding to projects intended to demonstrate the benefits of using 
biomass to prevent and reduce the severity of wildfires, increase renewable energy and 
enrich agricultural soil.  
 
The Colorado State Forest Service (Forest Service) awarded nearly $500,000 to 12 grant 
recipients. The grant recipients primarily used the funding to increase capacity to 
source and process biomass from forests in Colorado. 
 
Sunset criteria question whether a state program is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. 
 
Clearly, preventing and mitigating the risk of wildfire in Colorado is necessary to protect 
the public. However, while most of the grants were used to increase the capacity to 
source and process biomass garnered from Colorado forests, the Forest Service provided 
insufficient evidence of the wildfire prevention and mitigation benefits of biomass 
utilization from the grant projects. Therefore, the grant program should be sunset. 
 
Since the Forest Service also offers loans to support biomass utilization projects through 
the existing Healthy Forests and Vibrant Communities Fund, sunsetting the grant 
 
24 Encyclopedia Britannica. Biomass. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from www.britannica.com/technology/biofuel 
25 U.S. Forest and Rangelands. Woody Biomass Utilization and the WBUG. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.forestsandrangelands.gov/woody-biomass/overview.shtml 
26 U.S. Department of Energy. Biomass Energy. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.climatehubs.usda.gov/hubs/international/topic/biomass-energy 
27 National Renewal Energy Laboratory. Biomass Energy Basics. Retrieved December 27, 2024, from 
www.nrel.gov/research/re-biomass.html 
28 U.S. Energy Information Administration. Biomass Explained. Retrieved December 26, 2024, from 
www.eia.gov/energyexplained/biomass/ 
