 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
Colorado Securities Act 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
The Colorado Securities Act (Act) establishes a 
framework for the registration of securities, the 
licensing of securities firms and professionals and it 
establishes 
anti-fraud 
provisions 
related 
to 
securities.  It also empowers the Securities 
Commissioner (Commissioner) and the Division of 
Securities to enforce the Act.  The Act also creates 
the five-member, Governor-appointed Securities 
Board to advise the Commissioner. 
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
Regulation serves to protect consumers from 
fraudulent schemes and ensures the integrity of the 
securities markets in which Coloradans invest and 
upon which millions of businesses rely to raise 
capital, thus benefiting the economy overall. 
 
Who is regulated? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Commissioner licensed 
1,873 broker-dealer firms, 254,030 broker-dealer 
sales representatives, 3,309 federal covered 
investment advisers, 774 state-licensed investment 
advisers 
and 
16,119 
investment 
adviser 
representatives.  That same year, 135 securities 
offerings were registered with the Commissioner, 
in an amount exceeding $53 billion. 
 
How is it regulated? 
 
In general, securities offered for sale in Colorado 
must be registered with the Commissioner, unless 
exempt.  Additionally, the Commissioner licenses 
broker-dealer 
firms, 
broker-dealer 
sales 
representatives, investment adviser firms and 
investment adviser representatives.  While many of 
these are also regulated at the federal level, the 
Commissioner has exclusive jurisdiction over 
investment adviser representatives, as well as 
investment adviser firms with less than $100 million 
in assets under management.  With regard to 
securities fraud, the Commissioner can file civil 
suits or refer cases to the Attorney General or the 
state’s district attorneys for criminal prosecution. 
 
What does it cost? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Commissioner spent 
approximately $5.7 million and dedicated 28 full-
time equivalent employees to administer the Act. 
 
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, the Commissioner took a 
variety of enforcement actions, including but not 
limited to 3 license revocations, 15 administrative 
or civil referrals and 4 criminal referrals, and 
obtained over $2 million in restitution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue the Act for 11 years, 
until 2037. 
 
• Continue the Securities Board 
for 11 years, until 2037. 
 
• Clarify that deficiency letters 
are not public documents. 
 
• Revise the process by which the 
Commissioner issues cease and 
desist 
orders 
and 
summary 
suspensions. 
 
