 
 
6 | P a g e 
Profile of the Industry  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to understand what 
securities are, how they are regulated and the roles various firms and professionals 
play. 
 
The Colorado Securities Act (Act), among other things, creates the Division and the 
Board and it provides for the registration of securities and the regulation of broker-
dealers, investment advisers and their respective representatives. 
 
The Act defines a “security,” in pertinent part, as: 
 
any note; stock; treasury stock; bond; debenture; evidence of 
indebtedness; certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing 
agreement; collateral-trust certificate; preorganization certificate of 
subscription; transferable share; investment contract; viatical settlement 
investment; voting-trust certificate; certificate of deposit for a security; 
certificate of interest or participation in an oil, gas, or mining title or 
lease or in payments out of production under such a title or lease; or, in 
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security” . . .2 
 
If an investment does not fall within one of these enumerated categories, the 
investment can be evaluated under a principled test to see if it might be an investment 
contract.  Many of the investments currently offered to retail investors can be 
categorized as investment contracts. 
 
In 1946, the U.S. Supreme Court developed a four-part test, which is known as the 
“Howey Test,” to determine if an investment is an investment contract, and thus a 
security.  The Howey Test requires a determination as to whether: 
 
• There is an investment of money, 
• The investment is made into a common enterprise, 
• There is a reasonable expectation of profit, and 
• Any expected profits are derived from the efforts of others. 
 
This test was subsequently adopted by the courts in many states, including in Colorado.   
 
Very generally, there are two types of securities: equities and debt.  An equity security 
represents an ownership interest in an entity, such as a corporation, and typically 
 
2 § 11-51-201(17), C.R.S. 
