 
 
7 | P a g e 
involves some pro rata control of the entity.  Those who hold equities (often referred 
to as shareholders) typically do not receive regular monetary payments, although they 
may receive periodic dividends.  For the most part, investors in equities realize their 
profit or loss when they sell the security.3 
 
A debt security, by contrast, does not convey voting rights or any type of control over 
the issuing entity.  However, debt securities do entitle the holder to regular payments 
of interest and repayment of the principal, regardless of the entity’s performance.4 
 
Securities are regulated at both the state and federal level.  In general, all securities 
offered for sale in Colorado must be registered with the Commissioner, unless they fall 
into one of numerous exemptions.  Registration requirements vary depending on the 
type and size of the offering, but they generally require extensive disclosures regarding 
the issuer’s finances, corporate structure and lines of business. 
 
Broker-dealers (firms) and their sales representatives (individuals), most commonly 
known as stockbrokers, execute trades, helping to sell or buy investments.  They 
generally receive commissions based on each trade.  They generally do not give 
consumers comprehensive advice, although they can provide information and 
recommendations on a specific product. 
 
Broker-dealer sales representatives engage in securities transactions on behalf of and 
with the authority of the employing broker-dealer firm or an issuer of securities 
attempting to affect the sale of the issuer’s own securities.5 
 
Investment advisers, also known as asset managers, investment counselors, investment 
managers, portfolio managers, financial planners and wealth managers, generally 
provide investment advice to clients for a fee.6 
 
The Division has exclusive regulatory jurisdiction over state-licensed investment 
advisers, which are investment advisers with less than $100 million in assets under 
management.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, on the other hand, 
regulates firms with $100 million or more in assets under management, referred to as 
“federal covered advisers.”7 
 
 
3 Investopedia.  What Are Financial Securities?  Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
www.investopdia.com/terms/s/security.asp 
4 Investopedia.  What Are Financial Securities?  Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
www.investopdia.com/terms/s/security.asp 
5 Colorado Division of Securities.  Broker-Dealers and Sales Representatives.  Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
www.securities.colorado.gov/broker-dealer-and-sales-reprsentatives 
6 FINRA.  Investment Advisers.  Retrieved July 1, 2025, from www.finra.org/investors/investing/working-with-
investment-professional/investment-advisers 
7 FINRA.  Investment Advisers.  Retrieved July 1, 2025, from www.finra.org/investors/investing/working-with-
investment-professional/investment-advisers 
