 
 
9 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.).  The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
The securities industry has been regulated in the United States since 1911, with the 
passage of the first securities law in Kansas.  By 1919, 32 states had passed their own 
securities laws.  Today, all 50 states regulate at least some aspects of the securities 
industry. 
 
The federal government, however, did not begin regulating securities until after the 
stock market crash of 1929.  Acting under the presumption that the crash occurred 
because of the abandonment of fair, honest and prudent dealings in the securities 
markets in the decades following World War I and recognizing the need to fill the 
regulatory gaps created by the states’ limited jurisdiction, Congress passed the 
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  These foundational 
pieces of legislation required securities to be registered, unless exempt, and codified 
a standard for securities fraud.  They also created the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission as the regulatory body to enforce not only the new administrative laws but 
to also have specific authority to investigate and prosecute securities fraud. 
 
Since then, a multitude of securities-related laws have been enacted at the federal 
level. 
 
In Colorado, the General Assembly passed the first securities statute in 1923 and has 
regulated the securities industry ever since.  In an attempt to provide enhanced 
protection to consumers, the regulation of the securities industry has continually 
evolved.  The Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform conducted 
sunset reviews of the Colorado Securities Act (Act) in 1993, 2003 and 2014.  Colorado 
has enacted a few notable laws since the 2014 sunset review. 
 
