 
 
11 | P a g e 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether 
regulation is set at the appropriate level and whether the current laws are impeding or 
enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public interest. 
 
Securities are regulated at both the federal and state levels.  This section of the sunset 
report is intended to provide a high-level overview of pertinent federal laws as well as 
the Colorado Securities Act.  While this is not an exhaustive analysis, a common theme 
among the federal and state laws is the idea that investors have access to accurate 
information when making investment decisions. 
 
Federal Laws 
 
Federal law regarding securities is vast, comprehensive and continually evolving.  Some 
of the more prominent laws include: 
 
• Securities Act of 1933, 
• Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
• Investment Company Act of 1940, 
• Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 
• Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 
• Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, 
• Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
• Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, 
• Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012, and 
• Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. 
 
Although some of these laws are nearly 100 years old, most, if not all, have been 
amended multiple times since their original enactment. 
 
The Securities Act of 1933 governs how companies issue securities.  Very generally, it 
prohibits the offering or sale of a security unless the offering is first registered with the 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or is otherwise exempt.  The most 
common exemptions include private placements, certain small issues and offerings 
involving certain classes of securities.  As compared to nonexempt offerings, exempt 
offerings often require filings with the state that are not as detailed or extensive.  By 
contrast, for nonexempt offerings, the registration statement must include extensive 
disclosures.  Even offerings that are exempt from registration, however, require 
extensive disclosures to purchasers. 
 
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, among other things, created the SEC and regulates 
national securities exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and the 
National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (NASDAQ); self-
regulatory organizations such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and 
securities broker-dealers.  This act requires companies with large numbers of 
shareholders and those traded on national securities exchanges to register with the SEC 
