 
 
12 | P a g e 
and comply with various reporting requirements.  Importantly, it also prohibits issuers 
from making any material misstatements or omissions of material fact or engaging in 
fraudulent schemes related to the sales and solicitation of securities. 
 
The Investment Company Act of 1940 regulates issuers of securities that themselves 
primarily invest and trade in securities, such as mutual funds and exchange-traded 
funds.  Among other things, these companies must register with the SEC, make certain 
disclosures, refrain from certain transactions with affiliated persons and other 
investment companies, comply with certain limitations on the number of shares they 
can own in other investment companies and create shareholder-elected boards of 
directors to address conflicts of interest.10 
 
The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 imposes a number of requirements on those in the 
business of advising others about the value of securities or whether to invest in 
securities.  The statute applies to both firms and individuals, making them fiduciaries 
with respect to their clients.  With certain exceptions, they must register with the 
SEC.11 
 
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 has both anti-bribery and accounting 
provisions.  The act generally prohibits making payments or giving anything of value to 
a foreign official to obtain or retain business.  It also generally requires issuers to 
maintain accurate books and records with a reasonable level of detail and to maintain 
appropriate internal accounting controls.12 
 
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 is intended to minimize frivolous 
securities regulation by, among other things, requiring plaintiffs to show that a 
defendant’s false statements or omissions caused the loss at issue and it creates a safe 
harbor for certain forward-looking statements made by issuers.13 
 
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 primarily addresses the accounting practices and 
safeguards of publicly traded companies.  These requirements include mandating that 
the chief executive and financial officers certify their annual and quarterly reports, 
prohibiting the exercise of improper influence over auditors, mandating the disclosure 
of certain off-balance sheet activities, mandating the creation of procedures for 
reporting abuses and complaints and protecting whistleblowers from retaliatory 
action.14 
 
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 addresses the 
nation’s financial industry in multiple ways.  Among the impacts relevant to this sunset 
report were the creation of the Office of the Investor Advocate at the SEC, the 
establishment of a whistleblower award program for those reporting securities 
 
10 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 1. 
11 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 1. 
12 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), pp. 1-2. 
13 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
14 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
