 
 
13 | P a g e 
violations, increased regulation of credit rating agencies, provisions relating to risk 
allocation of asset-backed securities and provisions requiring additional disclosures 
regarding executive compensation at publicly traded companies.15 
 
The Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act 2012 clarifies that the nation’s insider 
trading laws apply to members of Congress and their staff, as well as employees of the 
Executive and Judicial Branches. 16  Such individuals, 
 
owe a duty to the U.S. government and citizens not to trade on material, 
nonpublic information acquired through their positions or the 
performance of their official responsibilities.17 
 
Finally, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 permits certain smaller 
companies to operate under reduced disclosure requirements and provides certain 
exemptions from the Sarbanes Oxley Act for five years or until they achieve specific 
financial milestones.  To facilitate crowdfunding, the act also creates an exemption for 
certain companies that rase up to $1 million through such mechanisms.  The act also 
expanded some exemptions for small issues of securities and private placements.18  
 
Colorado Securities Act 
 
The Colorado Securities Act (Act) encompasses Colorado’s efforts at regulating the 
securities industry by, among other things, regulating broker-dealers and their sales 
representatives as well as investment advisers and their representatives.  This includes 
licensing and examinations of the firms.  The Act also requires the registration of 
certain securities.  In addition, it establishes standards for civil and criminal securities 
fraud and provides the Commissioner with the authority to enforce against violations.  
The Act also contains additional legislative acts: 
 
• Colorado Crowdfunding Act, 
• Local Government Investment Pool Trust Fund Administration and Enforcement 
Act, and 
• Protect Vulnerable Adults from Financial Exploitation Act. 
 
To administer and enforce these acts, as well as the Colorado Commodities Code and 
the Colorado Municipal Bond Supervision Act,19 the Act creates the Division of Securities 
(Division) and the Securities Board (Board) in the Colorado Department of Regulatory 
Agencies (DORA).20  The head of the Division is the Commissioner, who is appointed by 
DORA’s Executive Director and the Board.21 
 
15 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
16 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
17 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
18 Federal Securities Laws: An Overview, Congressional Research Service (2020), p. 2. 
19 Although these two acts are administered and enforced by the Commissioner, they are not part of this sunset 
review. 
20 § 11-51-701, C.R.S. 
21 § 11-51-701, C.R.S. 
