 
 
15 | P a g e 
LICENSING 
 
The Commissioner licenses broker-dealers, broker-dealer sales representatives, 
investment advisers and investment adviser representatives.  The licensing process 
involves multiple organizations, such as the SEC, FINRA, North American Securities 
Administrators Association (NASAA) and the Division. 
 
Broker-dealers registered under the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (’34 Act) 
and their associated sales representatives file licensing applications with and submit 
regulatory filings to the SEC, FINRA and the Division through the Central Registration 
Depository (CRD).  State-licensed investment advisers and federal covered investment 
advisers file licensing applications with and submit regulatory filings with the SEC and 
the Division through the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD). 
 
A broker-dealer is generally a firm that is 
 
engaged in the business of effecting the purchases or sales of securities 
for the accounts of others or in the business of purchasing and selling 
securities for the person’s own account.34 
 
A broker-dealer sales representative is an individual who is not a broker-dealer and who 
is, 
 
authorized to act and [acts] for a broker-dealer in effecting or attempting 
to effect purchases or sales of securities or [is] authorized to act or [acts] 
for an issuer in effecting or attempting to effect the purchase or sales of 
the issuer’s own securities.35 
 
Broker-dealers may be entities that are registered under the ’34 Act or firms restricted 
to conducting business within the boundaries of Colorado (state licensed broker-dealer 
firms).  Broker-dealers registered under the ’34 Act are approved by the SEC, are 
members of FINRA and are licensed in Colorado.  State licensed broker-dealer firms are 
licensed in Colorado and restricted to conducting intrastate business unless licensed or 
exempt from licensing pursuant to the securities laws of other states. 
 
To transact business in Colorado, broker-dealers and their sales representatives must 
be licensed by the Commissioner or be exempt.36  Exempt broker-dealers include:37 
 
• Those exempted by the Commissioner by rule; 
• Online intermediaries;38 and 
 
34 § 11-51-201(2), C.R.S. 
35 § 11-51-201(14), C.R.S. 
36 § 11-51-401(1), C.R.S. 
37 § 11-51-402(1), C.R.S. 
38 Pursuant to section 11-51-201(11.5), C.R.S., an online intermediary is one who “acts as an intermediary in a 
transaction involving an offer through a website of securities for the account of an issuer,” subject to certain 
restrictions. 
