 
 
20 | P a g e 
The Commissioner may take similar action against an investment adviser or investment 
adviser representative that has willfully failed to provide clients with required 
disclosures or that has provided dishonest or unethical investment advisory services.58 
 
REGISTRATION OF SECURITIES 
 
The Act defines a security as, 
 
[A]ny note; stock: treasury stock; bond; debenture; evidence of 
indebtedness; certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing 
agreement; collateral-trust certificate; preorganization certificate of 
subscription; transferable share; investment contract; viatical settlement 
investment; voting-trust certificate; certificate of deposit for a security; 
certificate of interest or participation in an oil, gas, or mining title or 
lease or in payments out of production under such a title or lease; or, in 
general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a “security” or 
any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary or interim 
certificate for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or 
purchase any of the foregoing.59 
 
In general, securities must be registered, either with the SEC and/or with the 
Commissioner, unless they are exempt.60  Securities may be registered by coordination 
or qualification.  Registration by coordination is a simultaneous federal and state 
registration process where the state registration becomes effective when the SEC 
registration becomes effective.  Registration by qualification, on the other hand, is a 
more complex state-level registration used for securities that are not eligible for 
federal registration or interstate exemptions and requires more extensive disclosures 
filed directly with the Commissioner. 
 
In general, securities that are registered with the SEC qualify for registration by 
coordination in Colorado.  This process requires the issuer to file a registration 
statement with the Commissioner as well as copies of, among other things:61 
 
• The latest prospectus, offering circular or letter of notification; 
• The issuer’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; 
• Any agreement with or among the underwriters of the security; 
• A specimen, copy or description of the security; and 
• Any other information the Commissioner may require. 
 
Registration by qualification is a method of registering when the securities are subject 
to state regulation and may be sold within a single state.  A security may be exclusively 
 
58 § 11-51-410(1)(l), C.R.S. 
59 § 11-51-201(17), C.R.S. 
60 § 11-51-301, C.R.S. 
61 § 11-51-303(1), C.R.S. 
