 
 
26 | P a g e 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth, sixth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency's board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The Colorado Securities Act (Act) establishes a framework for the regulation of 
securities and securities firms and professionals in Colorado.  It creates a registration 
system for securities and a licensing system for broker-dealers and their sales 
representatives and investment advisers and their investment adviser representatives.  
It also includes a number of other acts within it: Local Government Investment Pool 
Trust Fund Administration and Enforcement Act and the Protect Vulnerable Adults from 
Financial Exploitation Act.   
 
Importantly, the Act also addresses a number of situations in which certain securities 
are exempt from having to be registered with the Commissioner, including those set 
out in the Colorado Crowd Funding Act. 
 
The Act vests enforcement and administration of the Act, including its exemptions, in 
the Securities Commissioner (Commissioner) and the Division of Securities (Division).  
The Act also sets forth standards of civil and criminal securities fraud and authorizes 
the Commissioner to investigate and take enforcement action against anyone who 
perpetrates securities fraud.  Finally, the Act authorizes the Commissioner to work with 
and refer matters to criminal prosecutors and to work with other securities regulators. 
 
The Commissioner is also responsible for providing regulatory oversight for the 
regulation of the Colorado Commodity Code, the Colorado Municipal Bond Supervision 
Act and the Local Government Pooling of Investment Funds statutes.  However, these 
three statutes are not subject to this sunset review. 
