 
 
30 | P a g e 
Table 5 illustrates, for the fiscal years indicated, the total number of securities 
registrations filed with the Commissioner.  Notably, the total offering amount in fiscal 
year 23-24 was over $53 billion. 
 
 
 
There were only two offerings registered via a limited offering registration during the 
review period.  The low number might be attributable to the fact that exemptions 
offered under federal law tend to be more appealing since federal registration permits 
the issuer to offer the securities throughout the country. 
 
The increase in offerings through coordination might be explained by larger companies 
seeking to raise capital following the COVID-19 pandemic. 
 
Additionally, many securities fall within a variety of federal exemptions and are 
therefore not required to be registered with the Commissioner.  More specifically, the 
passage of the federal National Securities Market Improvement Act of 1999 expanded 
the exemptions to the registration requirement for securities.  These exemptions are 
commonly referred to as “Regulation D” and “Regulation A” offerings, which refer to 
the SEC regulations from which they arise.   
 
Regulation D offerings describe a process by which issuers sell their securities through 
direct a private offering.  Such an offering is a financial tool that enables a company to 
issue either debt or equity securities directly to investors and avoid many costs 
associated with “going public” through an initial public offering.106 
 
Regulation D has resulted in various rules that describe the different types of offerings 
and set forth guidelines covering the amount of securities that can be sold and the 
number and type of investors allowed.107  
 
 
106 Investopedia.  SEC Regulation D (Reg D): Definition, Requirements, Advantages.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from 
www.investopedia.com/terms/r/regulationd.asp 
107 Investopedia.  SEC Regulation D (Reg D): Definition, Requirements, Advantages.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from 
www.investopedia.com/terms/r/regulationd.asp 
