 
 
31 | P a g e 
Generally, the two most common rules utilized for private placement exemptions are 
504 and 506.  Among other things, Rule 504 limits such offerings to $10 million within 
any 12-month period, while Rule 506 permits unlimited offerings.108 
   
Additionally, Regulation A is an exemption to the federal registration requirement for 
small public offerings of securities.  Under Tier 1, the issuer is permitted to issue up to 
$20 million in any 12-month period.  Under Tier 2, the issuer is permitted to issue up 
to $75 million in any 12-month period.109   
 
Other common exemptions from the securities registration requirement are mutual 
funds and unit investment trusts.  A mutual fund is an investment vehicle that is 
comprised of a pool of funds collected from many investors for the purpose of investing 
in securities such as stocks, bonds and money market instruments.110 
 
A unit investment trust is an investment that offers a fixed portfolio, generally of stocks 
and bonds, as redeemable “units” to investors for a specific period of time.111  It is 
designed to provide capital appreciation, dividend income or both.  
 
Issuers of securities that fall under Regulation D must still provide a notice filing with 
the Commissioner stating that the securities are being offered in Colorado.  Doing so 
ensures that the Division is aware of the exempt securities being offered to consumers 
in the state.  Many other securities offerings or transactions are self-executing, meaning 
that the issuer does not need to file any type of notice with the Commissioner. 
 
Table 6 illustrates for the fiscal years indicated the total number of exempt securities 
filings for which the Commissioner received notice. 
 
108 Investopedia.  SEC Regulation D (Reg D): Definition, Requirements, Advantages.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from 
www.investopedia.com/terms/r/regulationd.asp 
109 Investopedia.  What is Regulation A?  Definition, Update, Documentation, and Tiers.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, 
from www.investopedia.com/terms/r/regulationa.asp 
110 Investor.gov.  Mutual Funds.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from www.investor.gov/introduction-investing/investing-
basics/investment-products/mutual-funds-and-exchange-traded-funds-etfs/mutual-funds   
111 Investopedia.com.  Unit Investment Trust (UIT) Definition and How to Invest.  Retrieved July 15, 2025, from 
www.investopedia.com/terms/u/uit.asp 
