 
 
38 | P a g e 
If an investment adviser representative does not complete the required continuing 
education at the completion of the first reporting period, their license will renew as 
“CE Inactive.”  If they do not complete the required continuing education within the 
following year, they become ineligible to renew.  An investment adviser 
representative’s initial reporting period begins on the first day of the first full period 
the individual is licensed or required to be licensed in Colorado.  Approximately 97 
percent of investment adviser representatives complied with the continuing education 
requirement by the end of 2024, the first year of its existence. 
 
To assist licensees in complying with the requirement, the Division engaged in extensive 
outreach efforts to educate the regulated community regarding the new requirement 
by holding multiple question and answer sessions and sending emails to both investment 
adviser representative and the investment advisers that employ them.  Additionally, 
the Division itself was approved by the North American Securities Administrators 
Association (NASAA) to offer investment adviser representative continuing education 
and offered two free half-day courses in 2024 for credit and plans to continue to offer 
one to two courses each year as resources allow. 
 
Finally, it is worth noting that federally registered firms may hold both broker-dealer 
licenses and investment adviser licenses simultaneously, depending on the services and 
products they offer.  Additionally, sales representatives and investment adviser 
representatives may hold both types of licenses and may be affiliated with multiple 
firms. 
 
 
Qualification Examinations 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
Typically, individuals are required to take certain standardized qualification 
examinations to become a broker-dealer sales representative or an investment adviser 
representative.  The qualification examinations are administered by FINRA and not the 
Division. 
 
To become a broker-dealer sales representative, an individual must satisfy certain 
requirements and demonstrate a minimum level of understanding and expertise in 
securities subjects.  An individual must be sponsored by a broker-dealer in order to sit 
for most qualification examinations.  Some qualification examinations are required for 
all individuals, while others are taken because the subject matter pertains to the 
securities activities individual sales representatives will perform on behalf of firms or 
clients.  For example, FINRA offers the Series 6 and Series 7 qualification examinations. 
