 
 
40 | P a g e 
The websites of the organizations involved in examination development and 
administration all declare commitment to the principals of equity, diversity and 
inclusion.120 
 
 
Examinations 
 
The tenth sunset criterion asks whether complaint, investigation and disciplinary 
procedures adequately protect the public and whether final dispositions of complaints 
are in the public interest or self-serving to the profession or regulated entity. 
 
The Division is responsible for conducting periodic audits, referred to as examinations, 
of licensees (e.g., broker-dealers, investment advisers and their respective 
representatives) and registered Local Government Investment Pool Trust Funds.  The 
goal of the examinations is to ensure that licensees are complying with the Act in order 
to prevent dishonest and unethical sales practices.  Investment advisers are held to a 
fiduciary standard under the Act, which is the highest standard of conduct in business.  
Examinations of investment advisers include a substantive review of their conduct to 
ensure they are acting at the level of a fiduciary. 
 
Examinations typically entail a comprehensive review of the licensee to ensure 
compliance with the Act and applicable rules.  During an examination, the examiner, 
among other things, reviews a range of documentation, including but not limited to any 
books and records that are required to be maintained, such as advisory contracts, 
disclosure documents, financial statements, client files, trading and fee data, 
communications, advertising and any other books and records deemed necessary. 
 
Generally, examinations of new licensees are completed within the first two years of 
licensure and then every seven years.  However, if there are increased risk factors, 
examiners may increase the frequency.  
 
Table 12 illustrates, for the fiscal years indicated, the total number of examinations 
completed by the Division. 
 
 
120 See Prometric.  Prometric’s Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion.  Retrieved July 29, 2025, from 
prometric.com/dei-commitment; North American Securities Administrators Association.  Diversity, Equity, and 
Inclusion.  Retrieved July 29, 2025, from nasaa.org/policy/diversity-equity-and-inclusion/; and Financial Industry 
Regulatory Authority.  Regulatory Notice 21-17: FINRA Seeks Comment on Supporting Diversity and Inclusion in the 
Broker-Dealer Industry.  Retrieved July 29, 2025, from finra.org/rules-guidance/notices/21-17 
