 
 
43 | P a g e 
General fluctuations in the number of complaints can be attributed to the overall 
performance of the economy, social trends, global events and the complaints the public 
chooses to file with the Division.  In good markets, there tend to be fewer complaints 
because inappropriate activity often will not result in negative outcomes.  In bad 
markets, there tend to be more complaints as people detect fraudulent or questionable 
conduct as the markets trend down. 
 
The increase in the number of “Senior Exploitation (not opened)” cases can be 
attributed to the passage of the Protect Vulnerable Adults from Financial Exploitation 
Act.  This act requires the Division to receive complaints, review them and then forward 
them on to other agencies for action.  As a result, the Division acts as a sort of 
clearinghouse and does not have the authority to open a case or investigate if the 
allegations are not related to securities. 
 
The category “Other (opened)” include those that do not neatly fit into any other 
category and commonly include referrals from examinations, violations of previous 
orders or other investment adviser compliance matters. 
 
The category “Other (not opened)” generally do not appear to involve securities 
matters and could include any type of scam, like a romance crypto scam, or a theft. 
 
Once a complaint is received, Division staff begins a preliminary investigation to 
determine whether the allegations involve matters within the Division’s jurisdiction and 
have enough evidence to warrant further inquiry.  If the Division opens a case and 
conducts an investigation, the investigation may include subpoenaing documents, 
interviewing witnesses and garnering other pertinent information.  
 
Division staff may contact and/or work with or refer cases as appropriate to federal 
authorities, such as the SEC or the U.S. Attorney, as well as regulators in other states.  
Federal authorities typically take cases with national implications, such as those 
involving corporate fraud or insider trading (which the Division does not have 
jurisdiction over), and the Division typically retains cases where a majority of the 
investors or investments are located in Colorado. 
 
If a determination is made that a violation occurred and that legal action is warranted, 
administrative and civil enforcement proceedings are referred to the Colorado Attorney 
General’s Office (AGO) and the Commissioner is the plaintiff in those cases.  Criminal 
cases are referred to the appropriate district attorney, the AGO or the U.S. Attorney. 
 
Table 14 illustrates, for the fiscal years indicated, the number of final agency actions 
taken by the Commissioner.   
