 
 
45 | P a g e 
in cease and desist orders or cases in which there was a stipulation that was given effect 
by a consent order.  Finally, warning letters might be issued for violations not involving 
investment adviser regulations and often involve non-licensees.  They typically involve 
cases where the Division has identified violations of the Act but they do not warrant 
the expenditure of resources for more drastic enforcement measures. 
 
As the data indicate, the most frequent enforcement action in this category is the 
issuance of cease and desist or consent orders. 
 
The section entitled “Licensee Action” involves, as the title suggests, licensees.  
Categories indicating a sanction but not a revocation could include violations of 
licensing conditions.  Under such circumstances, the Commissioner typically requires 
the licensee to hire a compliance consultant and may require that consultant to conduct 
a surprise audit of the licensee to ascertain compliance.  These typically involve issues 
that occur after the licensee has failed to comply with a deficiency letter. 
 
As the data indicate, licensees are a relatively compliant group.  Only 10 actions were 
taken in this category in fiscal year 23-24, out of a licensee population of over 272,000. 
 
The section entitled “Administrative/Civil Actions” refers to cases referred by the 
Commissioner to the AGO for filing in the administrative process through the Office of 
Administrative Courts (OAC) or through the civil process in Denver District Court.  Since 
the OAC cannot order the payment of damages, these cases are typically limited to 
those involving cease and desist orders and licensees.  Importantly, in these cases, the 
Commissioner is the named complainant and is represented by the AGO. 
 
As the data in this section indicate, the Commissioner’s civil enforcement actions 
resulted in 11 civil judgments and 24 permanent injunctions over the five-year review 
period. 
 
The section entitled “Criminal Actions” indicates cases referred by the Commissioner 
to the AGO or the appropriate district attorney for the filing of criminal charges.  In 
such instances, the Division will assist with the investigations, but the Commissioner is 
not the complainant and does not direct the cases, ceding such authority to the relevant 
criminal prosecutor. 
 
As the data in the last two sections indicate, the Commissioner’s criminal referrals 
resulted in 33 criminal convictions over the five-year review period.   
 
The Commissioner’s enforcement efforts can also result in restitution orders.  Table 15 
illustrates, for the fiscal years indicated, the total value of restitution orders obtained 
by the Division through its enforcement efforts.   
