 
 
47 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Colorado Securities Act for 11 years, until 
2037. 
 
The Colorado Securities Act (Act) creates the Division of Securities (Division), the 
Securities Board (Board), the Colorado Crowdfunding Act, the Local Government 
Investment Pool Trust Fund Administration and Enforcement Act and the Protect 
Vulnerable Adults from Financial Exploitation Act.  Additionally, it creates the 
regulatory framework under which the Securities Commissioner (Commissioner) licenses 
broker-dealers, investment advisers and their representatives, and provides for the 
registration, and exemption from registration, of securities at the state level.  It also 
codifies the state’s securities fraud provisions and tasks the Division with the specific 
authority to understand, investigate and prosecute civil and criminal securities fraud 
matters and establishes penalties, restitution to make victims whole, and other 
recourse in law and equity. 
 
In short, the Act provides the regulatory framework under which securities are sold in 
Colorado and by whom, and it creates a specialized agency with expertise in finance to 
combat securities fraud and hold violators accountable. 
 
The first sunset criterion questions whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare.  The ninth sunset criterion, in part, inquires as to the 
economic impact of the program.  It is, therefore, reasonable to explore whether 
licensing those in the securities industry, registering securities themselves and 
investigating and prosecuting securities fraud serve to protect the public. 
 
Securities are issued for multiple reasons, but primarily to raise capital.  Capital, in 
turn, can be used to invest in new equipment, finance the acquisition of or merger with 
another company, finance operations and many other things.  Securities take two 
general forms: equity and debt.  Equity securities offer investors an opportunity to own 
a small portion of the issuer.  Debt securities offer a steady stream of income.  Each 
serves its own purpose.  Thus, the securities markets spur overall economic growth. 
 
The fundamental goals of securities regulation are investor protection and establishing 
the “rules of the game” so as to maintain the integrity of the securities markets.  A 
securities market with integrity will, theoretically, induce people to invest in the 
companies issuing the securities.  When the rules are obeyed, the markets work; 
legitimate businesses raise capital to operate, hire employees and generate income; 
investors can save and make profits to support themselves and their families and 
