 
 
48 | P a g e 
investment in the economy increases.  When the rules are disobeyed and no one is held 
accountable, the markets lose credibility; funds are diverted from legitimate businesses 
to fraudulent enterprises; legitimate businesses struggle to raise capital; investors lose 
their savings to fraud and the economy becomes more inefficient and is harmed. 
 
Securities regulation was born out of a desire to level the playing field so that legitimate 
businesses could efficiently raise capital, settlement of securities would be more 
certain, the markets would stabilize and investors would have more trust in market 
efficiencies.  Through the registration of securities, along with specific exemptions and 
filing requirements, regulation mandates full and fair disclosure with the aim of 
providing all investors with the same information necessary to weigh the potential risks 
and rewards of investing in a given security.  Issuers are held accountable for what they 
represent to investors and intermediaries who sell or advise on securities are held to a 
high professional standard.  
 
Integrity in the marketplace also demands that those who induce others to invest 
through lies and half-truths are investigated, prosecuted, ordered to stop, made to 
make victims whole and, in some instances, incarcerated.  This dissuades other bad 
actors, returns funds to victims and creates a sense of accountability, confidence and 
fairness in the markets. 
 
Securities regulation does not attempt to evaluate whether a given security is a good 
or bad investment.  Rather, it seeks to ensure that the investor has access to the 
information that will assist them in making their own determination as to whether a 
particular security is a good or bad investment for them.  The issuers must tell the 
whole truth under the securities laws. 
 
To assist them in making such an evaluation, an investor may retain the services of a 
broker-dealer, investment adviser or their respective representatives.  While the nature 
and types of services offered by such firms and individuals vary by the license they hold 
and their individual practices, these licensed firms and individuals help investors 
navigate the vagaries of the securities markets, the myriad disclosures and financial 
statements that are available and general market trends.  Securities regulation requires 
these professionals to sell and advise on investing in suitable securities over unsuitable 
securities. 
 
The Act’s anti-fraud provisions and the Commissioner’s enforcement of them requires 
full and fair disclosure, leading to the investigation and prosecution of those who induce 
investments through lies and half-truths. 
 
Thus, the combination of registering securities, licensing those who work in the 
securities industry and taking enforcement action against those who commit securities 
fraud serves to protect the public by way of individual investors, but also the general 
public by ensuring the integrity of the securities markets upon which millions of 
businesses rely to raise capital, thus benefiting the economy overall.  
 
