 
 
50 | P a g e 
The first sunset criterion questions whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare, and the eighth sunset criterion asks whether regulatory 
oversight can be achieved through a director model. 
 
The Board meets quarterly and its meetings are well attended by its members.  The 
majority of meeting time consists of the Commissioner and Division staff reporting on 
their enforcement and examination activities for the previous quarter.  These 
presentations frequently lead to larger discussions among Board members, the 
Commissioner and Division staff.  Thus, the Board fulfills its statutory obligations to 
provide advice and oversight to the Commissioner. 
 
Although two summary suspension hearings were referred to the Board between fiscal 
years 19-20 and 23-24, the period under review, both were settled prior to the hearing.  
However, the Board did hold one hearing in October 2024. 
 
The current Commissioner was hired in 2020, so the Board exercised its joint authority 
to appoint the Commissioner during the five-year period under review, though none of 
the current Board members were involved. 
 
Given the current uncertainty surrounding securities regulation at the federal level, 
along with advances in technology, such as artificial intelligence, and the proliferation 
of online securities trading platforms, the advice afforded by the Board’s members of 
industry experts will likely be necessary well into the future.  Such advice will aid the 
Commissioner in better protecting the public health, safety and welfare. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should continue the Board for 11 years, 
until 2037.  Doing so will once again align the next sunset review of the Board with that 
of the Act overall. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Clarify that deficiency letters are not public 
documents. 
 
As part of its compliance and enforcement efforts, the Division regularly examines 
licensees in an audit-like format.  These examinations typically result—up to 95 percent 
of the time, according to some estimates—in what is commonly known as a deficiency 
letter.  These letters often highlight violations and tips to ensure future compliance.  
Depending on the nature of the issues addressed in a particular letter, it may also 
contain confidential client information. 
 
The purpose of deficiency letters is to encourage compliance rather than to punish.  
This requires collaboration on the part of the licensee both in terms of identifying issues 
to be addressed and in rectifying those identified.  If the problems are not adequately 
addressed, actual enforcement action may follow. 
 
