 
 
51 | P a g e 
Deficiency letters represent a type of warning and, as such, have historically been 
treated as investigatory in nature and non-public.  This also means that they have not 
been disclosable, either to other regulators or to the public under the Colorado Open 
Records Act (CORA).  This is standard practice in at least 15 other states and at the SEC 
itself. 
 
Indeed, the Act provides that 
 
Information in the possession of, filed with, or obtained by the 
[Commissioner] in connection with a private investigation under this 
section shall be confidential.  No such information may be disclosed by 
the [Commissioner] or any of the officers or employees of the [Division] 
unless necessary or appropriate in connection with a particular 
investigation or proceeding under this article or for any law enforcement 
purpose.129 
 
However, the Act does not define “private investigation,” and that term is used in no 
other provision of the Act. 
 
Still, the Division has historically considered the examinations that result in deficiency 
letters to be private investigations and, therefore, concluded that the deficiency letters 
are confidential and not subject to disclosure.   
 
This interpretation was recently called into question when the Division received a 
request pursuant to CORA to release a series of deficiency letters. 
 
This has caused consternation among Division staff and the regulated community.  Most 
deficiency letters are issued to state-licensed investment advisers, which tend to be 
small businesses that lack a full-time compliance department or employee.  The 
examination process and deficiency letters offer an opportunity for the Division to work 
with these small businesses to bring them into compliance, resulting in better consumer 
protection.  The opportunity to cure the deficiencies is a way to allow small businesses 
to work to address the matters without escalating them to a public discourse.  The 
Division estimates that over 80 percent of investment adviser firms in Colorado are 
small businesses.  If deficiency letters were to become public, these small businesses 
would have to divert their limited resources to defending themselves in the court of 
public opinion when the underlying matters do not amount to a level requiring court 
action. 
 
In addition, the Division has seen firms request deficiency letters of their competitors.  
Allowing competitors to use deficiency letters to harm one another makes them 
weapons and undermines their purpose, which is to efficiently increase compliance, 
improve consumer protection and stabilize the market. 
 
 
129 § 11-51-601(5)(a), C.R.S. 
