 
 
52 | P a g e 
If deficiency letters are disclosable, the current cordial and collaborative deficiency 
letter process between the Division and the licensees would become more adversarial 
as licensees would feel compelled to fight against deficiency letters to protect 
themselves from reputational harm.  This would limit the ability of the Division to bring 
licensees back into compliance and would ultimately increase the risk of consumer 
harm. 
 
The fourth sunset criterion asks whether agency rules enhance the public interest and 
are within the scope of legislative intent.  The fifth sunset criterion asks, among other 
things, whether the agency’s operations are impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, 
rules, procedures and practices. 
 
Recommendation 1 of this sunset report concluded that regulation of the securities 
industry is necessary to protect the public.  As examinations and the resulting 
deficiency letters advance the objectives of the Act, it is reasonable to conclude that 
they, too are necessary to protect the public.  However, if their utility is undermined 
by a new interpretation of statute, that may not be the case much longer. 
 
Additionally, the Act itself seems to anticipate and condone keeping certain 
information confidential.  However, by not defining the term “private investigation,” 
the Act is subject to interpretation. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should clarify that deficiency letters are 
not public documents and are not subject to disclosure under CORA or to other 
regulators as indicators of violations. 
 
 
Recommendation 4 — Revise the process by which the Commissioner issues 
cease and desist orders and summary suspensions of licenses. 
 
The Act sets forth an extensive administrative process that must be followed before 
the Commissioner can issue a cease and desist order or a summary suspension. 
 
The Commissioner may issue cease and desist orders with regard to:130 
 
• The sale of a security that is subject to registration under the Act and the 
security is being offered or has been offered or sold in violation of the Act’s 
registration requirements, 
• Any person who has engaged in or is about to engage in the offer or sale of a 
security or any other act or practice in violation of the Act’s licensing 
requirements, 
• Any person who has engaged or is about to engage in the offer or sale of a security 
or any other act or practice in violation of the Act’s anti-fraud provisions, 
 
130 § 11-51-606(1.5)(b), C.R.S. 
