 
 
54 | P a g e 
• Has, within the preceding 10 years, been found to: 
o Have willfully violated another jurisdiction’s laws pertaining to securities, 
commodities, investments, franchises, insurance, banking or finance; 
o Have had a securities license denied, suspended or revoked by another 
jurisdiction; or 
o Have been suspended or expelled from membership or participation in a 
securities exchange or association in another jurisdiction. 
 
However, before the Commissioner can issue a summary suspension, there must first 
be a show hearing between 7 and 20 days after the Commissioner issues the order to 
show cause.133  Since show cause hearings for summary suspensions must be heard by 
the Board, scheduling them on such short notice can be difficult. 
 
As with cease and desist orders, the Commissioner must receive the initial decision from 
the hearing officer within 10 days of the show cause hearing.  For summary suspensions, 
however, another 10 days must pass to allow the Division or respondent to file 
exceptions to the initial decision with the Commissioner.  The Commissioner then has 
another 10 days within which to issue the final order. 
 
In the end, a total of 50 days could pass between the initial order to show cause and 
the issuance of the final order of summary suspension.  During this time, the respondent 
may continue to engage in the unlawful conduct that gave rise to the initial show cause 
order. 
 
In the case of a summary suspension, additional administrative proceedings must then 
occur should the Commissioner seek to revoke the license. 
 
Compounding matters, the show cause hearings for both cease and desist orders and 
summary suspensions must be held even when the respondent fails to appear.  Division 
staff estimates that this has occurred once in each of the last five years, or in roughly 
one-third of the cases filed.  It is also worth noting that it occurred more frequently in 
the early days of cryptocurrency, when, between 2018 and 2019, Division staff 
estimates that approximately 20 respondents failed to appear. 
 
The Division is now seeing an increase in the growth of online investment scams 
impacting Colorado investors where those involved claim to be based in Colorado or 
they impersonate legitimate investment adviser firms.  In these cases, the respondents 
have failed to appear.  The Division, the AGO, the Board and the Office of 
Administrative Courts continue to dedicate extensive resources preparing for and 
attending hearings where no respondents have appeared.  With the increase in online 
investment scams, it is reasonable to expect that more of these hearings will occur 
without respondents requiring the expenditure of still more state resources. 
 
 
133 §§ 11-51-606(4)(b) and (c)(I), C.R.S. 
