 
 
55 | P a g e 
The possible explanations as to why a respondent may fail to appear are, of course, 
purely speculative, but they include respondents who are operating scams from other 
countries and consider themselves beyond the reach of the Commissioner, as well as 
respondents who realize, after the Division’s investigation into their conduct, that they 
have indeed violated the Act and see no point in expending their own resources to 
mount a defense. 
 
Regardless of the reason, the current process requires the Division to expend its 
resources to prepare for a hearing that may be purely perfunctory. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, among other things, whether agency operations are 
impeded by existing statutes.  The sixth sunset criterion asks, among other things, 
whether the agency performs its statutory duties efficiently and effectively. 
 
The current system by which the Commissioner issues cease and desist orders and 
summary suspensions impedes the Commissioner’s ability to protect the public by 
creating a process that could take over a month to halt unlawful conduct.  Further, that 
system is inefficient because it requires the expenditure of resources for a hearing that 
may be purely perfunctory. 
 
Still, the current process ensures that the respondent receives due process before their 
conduct is impinged.  Due process is a necessary safeguard against improper 
government action, and it must be preserved.  Thus, any attempt to reform the process 
by which the Commissioner issues cease and desist orders and summary suspensions 
must also protect the respondent’s due process rights. 
 
To maintain respondents’ due process rights and to create a more efficient and 
effective process by which cease and desist orders and summary suspensions are issued, 
the current show cause process should be replaced by a process in which the 
Commissioner first issues a preliminary cease and desist order or summary suspension, 
as the case may be.  This will immediately halt the questionable acts, which demands 
rapid access to due process. 
 
Therefore, the respondent should be permitted to request a hearing on the preliminary 
order, which should be required to take place no more than 30 days after the issuance 
of the preliminary order.  Any request for a hearing should be filed within 15 days of 
the preliminary order. 
 
If the respondent fails to appear, then the preliminary order should become final.  If 
the respondent appears, then the hearing can proceed with the final disposition of the 
case being determined by the hearing. 
 
This process is consistent with the process for summary actions and cease and desist 
orders as outlined in sections 406(f) and 604 of the Uniform Securities Act. 
 
