 
 
57 | P a g e 
Thus, investment advisers meeting any of these conditions are exempt from the Act’s 
licensing provisions. 
 
When read together, the licensing provision and the exemption are nonsensical: if only 
those with a place of business in Colorado must be licensed in Colorado, any exemption 
for an investment adviser located outside of Colorado is moot.  The exemption is not 
needed because the licensing provision, by its very terms, exempts such investment 
advisers. 
 
Additionally, the Uniform Securities Act’s provision on this topic does not require one 
to have a place of business in the state.  The mere fact that one transacts business is 
sufficient to trigger the need to obtain a license, unless otherwise exempt.136  
 
In practice, it is believed that most investment advisers that do not fall under the stated 
exemption are licensed by the Commissioner, as is standard industry practice.  But 
without a clear mandate to do so, some may not be.  This may be unfair to Colorado 
home-state investment advisers as those in Colorado must comply with state licensing 
laws and continuing education requirements while those that are out-of-state do not, 
even though they target Colorado clients. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, among other things, whether the agency’s operations 
are impeded or enhanced by existing statutes.  These provisions of the Act clearly 
threaten to impede the Commissioner’s enforcement and administration of the Act. 
 
Therefore, to give full effect to the Act, the General Assembly should clarify that 
investment advisers and investment adviser representatives transacting business in 
Colorado must be licensed by the Commissioner, unless exempt. 
 
 
Recommendation 6 — Specify that the Executive Director of the Department 
of Regulatory Agencies must consult with the Board when appointing the 
Commissioner. 
 
The state’s constitution provides, 
 
The head of each principal department shall be the appointing authority 
for the employees of [their] office and for heads of divisions, within the 
personnel system, ranking next below the head of such department. . .137 
 
In this instance, the principal department is DORA and its head is the Executive 
Director.  Further, the head of the Division is the Commissioner.  Thus, the Constitution 
anticipates that the Executive Director is the appointing authority for the 
Commissioner. 
 
136 See Uniform Securities Act (2002) § 403(a). 
137 Colo Const. Art. XII, § 13(7). 
