 
 
58 | P a g e 
However, the Act complicates this in how it creates the Division, “the head of which is 
the [Commissioner], who shall be appointed by the [Executive Director], pursuant to 
[the Constitution], and the [Board].”138 {emphasis added} 
 
While the Act seemingly contradicts the Constitution, even while acknowledging the 
applicability of the Constitution, such is not necessarily the case.  A division director, 
such as the Commissioner, may be, but is not required to be, part of the Senior 
Executive Service, which is exempt from the state personnel system.  Thus, if the 
Commissioner is part of the Senior Executive Service, then they are not part of the state 
personnel system and the Constitutional provision is not applicable. 
 
Regardless, it is unusual, awkward and relatively unique, for a board or commission, 
such as the Board, particularly one that is primarily advisory in nature, to serve as a 
sort of co-appointing authority for a division director. 
 
Further, this shared authority has caused problems in the past, which was highlighted 
in the media. 
 
The sixth sunset criterion asks whether the agency or the agency’s board performs its 
statutory duties efficiently and effectively.  Having two appointing authorities is 
inefficient and ineffective and runs contrary to the typical government hiring process. 
 
All of this is not to say that the Board ought not to play a role in the hiring process.  On 
the contrary, the Board has expertise in the securities industry and could provide 
valuable insight to the Executive Director as an advisory and consultative body, not as 
a co-appointing authority. 
 
For all these reasons, the Geneal Assembly should specify that the Executive Director 
consult with the Board when appointing the Commissioner. 
 
 
Recommendation 7 — Make a technical amendment to the Act. 
 
The Act contains outdated language that should be revised to reflect current 
terminology and administrative practices. Therefore, the General Assembly should 
amend the Act to address the following technical issue:  
 
• Amend the Act to make it gender neutral by replacing terms such as “him”, 
“her”, “himself”, “herself”, “he”, and “she” with gender-neutral terms. 
 
 
 
 
138 § 11-51-701, C.R.S. 
