 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
Medical Practice Act 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
Physicians work in a variety of both clinical and 
non-clinical settings, including hospitals, physician 
offices, insurance companies, and government 
agencies and they work to address injuries, 
illness, and health maintenance through diagnosis 
and treatment.  
 
Physician assistants examine, diagnose, and treat 
patients, sometimes under the supervision of a 
physician, and may work in teams with physicians, 
surgeons, or other healthcare professionals. 
 
Anesthesiologist assistants help with the 
coordination and implementation of care as a part 
of an anesthesia care team before, during, and 
after surgical procedures. 
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
Physicians, physician assistants, and 
anesthesiologist assistants hold positions of trust 
with the patients that they work with.  Medical 
treatment, if performed improperly, can cause 
significant damage to a patient, and in instances 
where the patient’s life is at risk, improper 
treatment can lead to death. 
 
Who is regulated? 
 
At the end of fiscal year 23-24, there were 40,796 
total active licenses administered by the Colorado 
Medical Board (Medical Board), which is housed in 
the Division of Professions and Occupations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is it regulated? 
 
The Medical Board oversees the licensure and 
regulation of physicians, physician assistants, and 
anesthesiologist assistants in Colorado as specified 
in the Medical Practice Act (Act).  The Medical 
Board is tasked with the issuance of licenses and is 
required by statute to establish an application 
process for examination, initial licensure, and 
license renewal, as well as imposing discipline for 
violations of the Act. 
 
What does it cost? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, expenditures associated with 
the Act amounted to $3,974,013 and 8.75 full-
time equivalent employees were allocated to the 
program. 
 
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
During the sunset review period of fiscal years 19-
20 through 23-24, a total of 1,721 complaints were 
filed and 117 disciplinary actions were taken 
against licensees. 
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Continue the Medical Practice 
Act for nine years, until 2035. 
 
• Allow the President of the Board 
to serve as a full member at 
licensing panel meetings.  
 
• Amend the composition of the 
Board to include three physician 
assistants 
and 
five 
public 
members. 
