 
 
7 | P a g e 
Profile of the Profession  
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what the 
profession does, where they work, who they serve and any necessary qualifications. 
 
Generally, the practice of medicine is defined as,2 
 
…the art or science of restoring or preserving health or due physical 
condition, as by means of drugs, surgical operations or appliances, or 
manipulations: often divided into medicine proper, surgery, and 
obstetrics. 
 
Further, medicine may also include, 
 
…the art or science of treating disease with drugs or curative substances, 
as distinguished from surgery or obstetrics. 
 
The Medical Practice Act, which is the subject of this sunset review, creates the 
regulatory framework for physicians, physician assistants and anesthesiologist 
assistants. 
 
Physicians work in a variety of both clinical and non-clinical settings, including 
hospitals, physician offices, insurance companies, and government agencies,3 and they 
work to address injuries, illness, and health maintenance through diagnosis and 
treatment.4  
 
Tasks performed by physicians may include, but are not limited to:5 
 
• Performing physical examinations and noting the patient’s medical history; 
• Recommending, designing, and implementing treatment plans for patients; 
• Documenting and updating charts regarding patient information in order to 
demonstrate findings and specific treatments; 
• Ordering consultations and patient tests; and 
• Reviewing test results to identify findings. 
 
2 Dictionary.com. Medicine. Retrieved June 30, 2025, from http://www.dictionary.com/browse/medicine   
3 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 
2025, from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm 
4 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 
2025, from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-2 
5 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 2025, 
from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-2 
