 
 
8 | P a g e 
Physicians may specialize in specific areas of medicine including, but not limited to:6 
 
• Anesthesiology, 
• Cardiology, 
• Dermatology, 
• Emergency medicine, 
• Family medicine, 
• General internal medicine, 
• Neurology, 
• Obstetrics, 
• Ophthalmology, 
• Orthopedics, 
• Pediatrics, and 
• Radiology. 
 
In order to become a physician, a bachelor's degree and a degree from a medical school 
or school of osteopathy is typically required. Physicians may obtain a degree as either 
a medical doctor (M.D.) or as a doctor of osteopathic medicine (D.O.).7 Depending upon 
the physician’s area of specialization, there may also be a requirement for an additional 
three to nine years of internship and residency programs. 
 
Physician training programs are highly competitive academic environments, and 
applicants must typically provide transcripts, letters of recommendation, and 
submission of examination scores from the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT). 
Schools may also consider an applicant’s personality, participation in extra-curricular 
activities, and leadership qualities. Further, most schools require that applicants be 
interviewed by members of the school’s admissions committee.8 
 
Upon acceptance, the initial phase of training is often conducted in classrooms, 
laboratories, and small groups. Subject matter of initial coursework typically includes 
study of courses such as biochemistry, anatomy, psychology, pharmacology, and 
medical ethics. In addition, students gain a variety of skills during this first phase, 
including patient examinations, medical history intake, and the diagnosis of medical 
conditions.9 
 
During the second phase of training, students work with patients under the supervision 
of physicians in clinics or hospital settings. Through these experiences, students learn 
to diagnose and treat illnesses through what are referred to as “rotations” or 
 
6 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 2025, 
from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-2 
7 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 2025, 
from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-4 
8 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 2025, 
from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-4 
9 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physicians and Surgeons. Retrieved June 30, 2025, 
from https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physicians-and-surgeons.htm#tab-4 
