 
 
10 | P a g e 
patients.  All states currently require physician assistants to be licensed, and related 
educational programs typically require a minimum of two years to complete.16 
 
Educational programs for physician assistants may include laboratory and classroom 
instruction in a variety of subjects, including pharmacology, human anatomy, and 
clinical medicine. Further, supervised clinical training may be required in several 
specialty areas, such as emergency medicine, family medicine, and internal medicine.17 
 
All states and the District of Columbia require physician assistants to be licensed. In 
order to become licensed, applicants are required to pass an examination (the Physician 
Assistant National Certifying Examination (PANCE), which is administered by the 
National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants).  The credential that may 
be utilized by licensed physician assistants is “PA-C.”18 
 
Anesthesiologist assistants help with the coordination and implementation of care as a 
part of an anesthesia care team before, during, and after surgical procedures.19 
 
Work performed by anesthesiologist assistants, includes, but is not limited to:20 
 
• Performing physical examinations and collecting a patient’s medical history; 
• Applying and interpreting monitoring techniques in advance of a procedure; 
• Securing the patient’s airway; 
• Securing and recording the status of a patient, including physiological and 
pharmacological aspects; and  
• Providing post-operative continuity of care. 
 
The American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants also offers a certification process 
for anesthesiologist assistants known as “CAA.” In order to become certified, applicants 
must complete any required premedical education and must obtain a master’s degree 
from an accredited anesthesiology program. Specific coursework for CAAs requires at 
least two full years to complete.21 
 
Currently, anesthesiologist assistants are regulated and may be required to obtain 
either a license or certification in 14 states, the District of Columbia and Guam. 
 
16 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physician Assistants. Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physician-assistants.htm#tab-4 
17 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physician Assistants. Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physician-assistants.htm#tab-4 
18 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Physician Assistants. Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
https://www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/physician-assistants.htm#tab-4 
19 American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants. Certified Anesthesiologist Assistants (CAAs). Retrieved July 1, 
2025, from https://www.anesthetist.org/_files/ugd/b88fea_6130aad98ba04cd99c6646c027c8c94c.pdf 
20 American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants. About CAAs. Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
https://www.anesthetist.org/about-caas 
21 American Academy of Anesthesiologist Assistants. About CAAs. Retrieved July 1, 2025, from 
https://www.anesthetist.org/about-caas 
