 
 
12 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
The Colorado Medical Board (Board), formerly known as the Colorado State Board of 
Medical Examiners, was established in 1881 in order to protect the public health, safety, 
and welfare by enforcing minimum competency standards through licensure, complaint 
investigation, and disciplinary action where appropriate. Since then, the Medical 
Practice Act (Act) has undergone numerous amendments. 
 
In 1969, the General Assembly enacted the Child Health Associate Law, which provided 
regulatory requirements for physician assistants who worked with physicians, primarily 
in the field of Pediatrics.28  
 
In 1990, certified child health associates were granted licensure as physician assistants 
with the authority to provide services to patients under the age of 21, since the Board 
no longer certified that category of health professional.29 
 
In 2009, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) 
conducted a sunset review of the Board, and the General Assembly enacted several of 
the report’s recommendations, including, but not limited to: 
 
• Establishment of a two-year waiting period for licenses that have been revoked 
or surrendered in lieu of disciplinary action; 
• Creation of a pro bono license type for physicians; and 
• Authorization of the Board to enter into confidential agreements with licensees 
who agree to voluntarily address health conditions, allowing the licensee to 
continue to work without reducing patient safety. 
 
28 Dean, Winston J. State Legislation for Physicians Assistants: A Review and Analysis. Center for Disease Control 
Stacks, January 1973, Vol. 88, No.1.  
29 § 12-240-109, C.R.S. 
