 
 
13 | P a g e 
During the same legislative session, the General Assembly passed several additional 
amendments to the Act, including a definitional change to physician responsibilities 
regarding recommending marijuana to patients, which included laws relating to medical 
marijuana as well as the definition of unprofessional conduct. 
 
In 2018, the most recent sunset review was conducted, which made a variety of 
recommendations for statutory amendments to the Act which were passed by the 
General Assembly, including, but not limited to: 
 
• Continuation of the Board for seven years, until 2026; 
• Elimination of the 60-day limit for pro bono licenses; and  
• Removal of the requirement that letters of admonition be sent by certified mail. 
 
Senate Bill 19-228 was then enacted by the General Assembly, which prohibited a 
physician or physician assistant from receiving any direct or indirect benefit from 
pharmaceutical manufacturers or representatives for prescribing specific medications 
to patients. 
 
Also during the 2019 legislative session, the General Assembly recodified Title 12, C.R.S. 
At that time, Article 36 was repealed and reenacted as Article 240. Though there were 
changes in the manner in which the law reads and many provisions of law were 
combined with common elements of other laws, none of those changes affected the 
implementation or enforcement of the Act. 
 
In 2023, the General Assembly enacted Senate Bill 23-083 (SB 23-083), which provided 
additional clarification regarding the relationship between physician assistants and 
physicians or podiatrists by removing the supervision requirement, except in specific 
instances. Further, SB 23-083 clarified specific requirements regarding collaborative 
agreements for physician assistants with physicians or physician groups. 
 
In 2024, the General Assembly enacted the Physician Assistant Licensure Compact 
through Senate Bill 24-018 which enables physician assistants with a license in a 
compact state to be more easily authorized to practice in other compact states. That 
same year, House Bill 24-1153, established a continuing education requirement for 
physicians of 30 credit hours within the 24 months preceding license renewal, 
reactivation, or reinstatement. 
 
 
