 
 
24 | P a g e 
Fluctuations in expenditures may have occurred due to the Division’s efforts to 
centralize services, which led to the reallocation of three positions for the intake team 
and regulatory team to include rulemaking and CORA requests.  
 
The number of FTE reflected in the table does not include employees in the centralized 
offices of the Division that provide management, licensing, administrative, technical, 
and investigative support to the Board. However, the cost of those FTE is reflected in 
the total program expenditures. 
 
In fiscal year 24-25, the Division allocated a combined total of 7.0 FTE to support the 
Board, apportioned in the following manner: 
 
• Program Management II – 1.0 FTE (Program Director) - Manages and supervises 
all Board related matters which include policy development, administration, 
licensing, enforcement, and Board meetings. 
• Technician V – 1.0 FTE (Enforcement Program Manager) - Assists the Program 
Director with analysis and prioritization of complaints; initiates and monitors 
investigations; issues orders for mental or physical evaluations; provides 
analysis, preparation and distribution of materials to the inquiry panels as well 
as the full Board; and implements Board decisions regarding complaints. 
• Technician IV – 1.0 FTE (Licensing Manager) - Provides Board support during 
meetings, prepares Board correspondence and reports, prepares and distributes 
materials to the licensing panel, maintains Board records, and provides 
additional administrative support. 
• Technician IV – 1.0 FTE (Enforcement Specialist) - Oversees and monitors 
disciplinary processes, issues peer health assistance program orders and 
processes all final agency orders and Board orders. 
• Technician III – 2.0 FTE (Program Specialists) - Oversees, monitors, and provides 
follow up regarding daily Board operations and prepares information for the 
Board’s review, as well as any duties that impact the efficiency of processes 
within the work unit. 
• Technician III – 1.0 FTE (Licensing Specialist) - Responsible for application 
review as well as the processing and issuing licenses and cease and desist orders. 
 
The program is cash funded by the various fees paid by licensees. 
 
Table 3 highlights initial license fees for physicians, physician assistants, 
anesthesiologist assistants, and physicians in training during fiscal years 19-20 through 
23-24. 
 
