 
 
31 | P a g e 
License Renewal 
In order to qualify for license renewal, licensees must:95 
 
• Successfully complete the Board’s renewal questionnaire, 
• Pay the renewal fee, and 
• Provide proof of compliance with any financial responsibility requirements. 
 
License Reinstatement 
Once a license expires, it must be reinstated by the Board in order for a licensee to 
continue to practice.  
In order to be reinstated, the licensee must complete the Board’s requirements for 
reinstatement, including, but not limited to: 96 
• Successfully complete the Board’s application for reinstatement, including the 
renewal questionnaire; 
• Pay the reinstatement fee; and 
• Provide proof of compliance with any financial responsibility requirements. 
 
If the individual has a matter pending before one of the inquiry or hearings panels, the 
Board may defer the application for reinstatement in order to proceed with any 
disciplinary action, and the Board may also determine whether to deny reinstatement. 
The Board may require the licensee to undertake a competency assessment or 
evaluation, undertake a period of supervised practice, or complete an educational 
program if the individual has not practiced medicine within the preceding two years of 
the Board’s consideration of the reinstatement application. 
Reentry License  
At the discretion of the Board, a reentry license may be issued in order to allow the 
licensee the opportunity to complete specific training and/or education requirements.  
Once issued, the reentry license is valid for a single period not to exceed three years 
from the date of issuance. The reentry license can be administratively deactivated if 
the licensee fails to complete the required education and training.97 
 
 
 
 
95 3 CCR § 713-1-1.8-C. Colorado Medical Board, Medical Rules and Regulations. 
96 3 CCR § 713-1-1.8-D. Colorado Medical Board, Medical Rules and Regulations. 
97 3 CCR § 713-1-1.8-F. Colorado Medical Board, Medical Rules and Regulations. 
