 
 
32 | P a g e 
Examinations 
 
The eleventh and twelfth sunset criteria question whether the scope of practice of the 
regulated occupation contributes to the optimum use of personnel and whether entry 
requirements encourage equity, diversity and inclusivity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
One of the qualifications necessary to obtain a medical license in Colorado is the 
passage of a national examination.  
 
Physicians 
The Board has authorized the following examinations to satisfy physician licensure 
requirements:98 
 
• The United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE), administered by the 
National Board of Medical Examiners; 
• The Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination, administered by the National 
Board of Osteopathic Medical Examiners; 
• The Federal Licensure Examination, administered by the Federation of State 
Medical Boards; and 
• The Medical Council of Canada Qualifying Examination, along with the conferral 
of the Licentiate of the Medical Council of Canada. 
 
Of these examination mechanisms, the USMLE is the most prevalently utilized so it is 
the only examination discussed here. 
 
The USMLE is available to all candidates seeking licensure to practice medicine in the 
United States.  The examination includes the separate steps meant to assess a variety 
of related skills:99 
 
• Step 1 – Assesses basic scientific knowledge related to the practice of medicine; 
• Step 2 – Assesses clinical knowledge and the ability to apply key clinical concepts 
in patient care; and  
• Step 3 – Assesses abilities related to the application of knowledge regarding 
clinical and biomedical science utilized in unsupervised practice. 
 
Each step utilizes computer-based testing, which is administered by Prometric at 
approximately 335 Prometric testing centers throughout the United States and Canada, 
as well as approximately 100 international Prometric testing locations. Steps 1 and 2 
 
98 3 CCR §§ 713-1-1.5-C and D. Colorado Medical Board, Medical Rules and Regulations. 
99 United States Medical Licensing Examination. Exam Day Information. Retrieved October 8, 2025 from 
https://www.usmle.org/what-to-know/exam-day-information 
