 
 
38 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Medical Practice Act for nine years, until 
2035. 
 
The Medical Practice Act (Act) regulates a variety of professionals, including physicians, 
physician assistants, and anesthesiologist assistants, who work in both clinical and non-
clinical settings, including hospitals, physician offices, insurance companies, and 
government agencies. Each profession works within their scope of practice to address 
injuries, illness, pain management, and health maintenance through diagnosis and/or 
treatment.   
 
Physicians, physician assistants, and anesthesiologist assistants hold a position of trust 
with the patients with whom they work. Medical treatment, if performed improperly, 
can cause significant damage to a patient, and in instances where the patient’s life is 
at risk, improper treatment can lead to death. 
 
The field of medicine requires high levels of training to ensure that healthcare 
professionals are skilled in their areas of expertise in order to ensure minimal 
competency in their work with patients.   
 
The Act protects consumers from harm by imposing educational and licensure 
requirements to ensure that licensees receive proper training and maintain competency 
in their field. The Colorado Medical Board (Board) administers and enforces the Act by 
reviewing complaints and may discipline licensees for violations of the Act including 
potential revocation for severe violations. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks if regulation is necessary to protect the public health, 
safety, and welfare. Through the application of the regulatory framework established 
in the Act, the Board provides effective oversight in order to protect the public interest. 
Given the number of structural recommendations made in this review, the General 
Assembly should continue the Act and the Board for nine years, until 2035. 
 
It is worth noting that concurrently with this sunset review, the Division of Professions 
and Occupations (Division) also underwent a sunset review. Recommendations in the 
sunset report of the Division will likely impact the administration of the Act, as those 
recommendations will have Division-wide impact. Such recommendations were made in 
the sunset report of the Division, as opposed to individual programmatic reports, to 
ensure consistency and cohesion in policy implementation across the Division. 
 
