 
 
39 | P a g e 
Recommendation 2 — Authorize the President of the Board to serve as a full 
member at licensing panel meetings. 
 
The Board currently consists of 17 total members and is structured into three separate 
sub-panels that each complete specific tasks: two inquiry panels (which each complete 
tasks including the reviewing of complaints, investigations, and conducting hearings) 
and one licensing panel (which completes tasks including reviewing license applications 
and addressing instances of unauthorized practice). Each inquiry panel currently has six 
members, while the licensing panel currently has four members. 
 
On the licensing panel, two members of a panel must be present in order to constitute 
a quorum to hold panel meetings, and three members of the panel must be present in 
order for the panel to go into executive session. On either of the inquiry panels, three 
members constitute a quorum for meetings related to inquiries or hearings. 
 
Section 12-240-116(1)(b), Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), further allows the 
President of the Board to rotate membership on the various panels so that all Board 
members, including the President, have the ability to serve on each panel. Additionally, 
section 12-240-125 (1)(b), C.R.S., allows the President to serve as a full member on the 
two inquiry panels, and thus, to be able to vote on related matters as established under 
this section of statute. However, section 12-240-116, C.R.S., does not directly state 
that the President has full membership on the licensing panel, which is in contrast to 
the statute regarding the inquiry panels. 
 
Therefore, the President retains full voting membership on both inquiry panels but is 
not a voting member on the licensing panel. As a result, even if the President is in 
attendance at a licensing panel meeting, they cannot be considered for the 
establishment of a quorum to convene a meeting, which can delay licensing panel 
business in the event that there are not enough members to constitute a quorum. 105 In 
recent years, there have been challenges with the establishment of quorums due to 
scheduling issues and Board member vacancies. 
 
The fifth and sixth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its operation is 
impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, and practices and 
any other circumstances, including budgetary, resource, and personnel matters; 
and 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively. 
 
 
105 § 12-240-125(6), C.R.S. 
