 
 
40 | P a g e 
Allowing the President to participate as a full member of the licensing panel would help 
to ensure that the business of the Board can run as effectively and efficiently as 
possible, which is in the public interest. Therefore, the General Assembly should 
authorize the President of the Board to serve as a full member at licensing panel 
meetings. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 – Amend the composition of the Board to include three 
physician assistants and five public members.  
 
Section 12-240-105, C.R.S., states that the Board must consist of 17 members, including 
two physician assistants and four public members. To conduct its licensing and 
investigatory duties, the Board is divided into one licensing panel and two inquiry 
panels. 
 
The licensing panel consists of one licensed physician with a degree in medicine, one 
licensed physician with a degree in osteopathy, one public member, and one physician 
assistant. The licensing panel reviews and makes determinations regarding applications 
for licensure, and resolves issues related to the unlicensed practice of medicine.106 
 
The inquiry panels consist of two separate panels totaling six members each, four of 
whom must be physician members. Each inquiry panel performs, among other things, 
inquiries and hearings regarding complaint investigations.107 The Act does not presently 
list each required member for the inquiry panels. However, the current makeup of 
members on each panel is as follows: 
 
• Panel A – One physician assistant, one public member, one doctor of 
osteopathy, and three medical doctors. 
• Panel B – Two public members, one doctor of osteopathy, and three medical 
doctors.  
 
In sum, the composition of the full Board renders the composition of the two inquiry 
panels unbalanced. One inquiry panel currently contains one member of the public and 
one physician assistant, while the other inquiry panel currently has two members of the 
public and no physician assistant. 
 
Public membership on the Board is an important voice and should not be diminished. 
Therefore, by increasing the public membership on Panel A by adding one public 
member and adding one physician assistant to Panel B, both panels would have equal 
representation consisting of two public members and one physician assistant on each 
panel.   
 
 
106 § 12-240-116, C.R.S. 
107 § 12-240-125(1), C.R.S. 
