 
 
43 | P a g e 
Recommendation 5 — Change the requirement in section 12-240-111, C.R.S., 
for a distinguished foreign teaching physician to apply for a license every odd-
numbered year as opposed to every year. 
 
Section 12-20-202(1)(a), C.R.S., provides the Director of the Division with the authority 
to establish a renewal schedule for all licenses under the Division’s purview. As a part 
of this schedule, full physician licenses are set to renew every other year. 
 
However, section 12-240-111(3), C.R.S., regarding renewal of the distinguished foreign 
teaching physician license states, 
 
A distinguished foreign teaching physician license is effective and in force 
only while the holder is serving on the academic staff of a medical school. 
The license expires one year after the date of issuance… 
 
The current renewal schedule for full physician licensure is every other year. However, 
distinguished foreign teaching physician licensure is required by statute to renew every 
year. 
 
The fifth, eleventh, and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes…; 
 
…whether the scope of practice of the regulated occupation contributes 
to the optimum use of personnel; and 
 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
By changing the requirement for a distinguished foreign teaching physician to apply for 
a license every other year, rather than the current requirement of every year, statute 
would be in greater alignment with the requirements of the full physician license, 
creating fewer burdens for licensees and the facilities that hire them, which is in the 
public interest. Therefore, the General Assembly should change the requirement in 
section 12-240-111, C.R.S., for a distinguished foreign teaching physician to apply for a 
license every odd-numbered year as opposed to every year. 
 
 
Recommendation 6 – Exempt from the Act facilitators who are practicing 
within the scope of their Natural Medicine license. 
 
The Natural Medicine Program was established with the passage of Senate Bill 23-290 
and allows the utilization of certain natural medicines (such as Psilocybin or Psilocin) 
to be utilized as a method of treatment for a variety of mental health conditions. 
 
