 
 
44 | P a g e 
This program is a director model program which oversees, among other things, the 
regulatory requirements of the practitioners who provide natural medicine services in 
the state. There are several categories of practitioners within the Natural Medicine 
Program, including the categories of facilitator and clinical facilitator. 
 
Individuals who do not hold licensure or other authorization to practice a profession 
that does not diagnose and treat medical or behavioral health conditions may become 
licensed as a facilitator. 109 Facilitator licensees are authorized to provide natural 
medicine services to certain participants.110   
 
The Natural Medicine Program also licenses clinical facilitators. Physicians and 
physician assistants may be licensed as clinical facilitators. A clinical facilitator is a 
practitioner who,111 
 
• Has a license in Colorado which enables them to diagnose and treat physical or 
behavioral/mental health conditions; and 
• Is licensed to perform and supervise natural medicine services for participants 
whose safety screening does not indicate needing the involvement of a medical 
or behavioral health provider that treats concerns outside the scope of the 
clinical facilitator's secondary license. 
 
Natural medicine services include conducting preparation, administration, and 
integration sessions. Certain aspects of natural medicine services may overlap with the 
practice of medicine, as defined at section 12-240-107, C.R.S. For example, facilitators 
and clinical facilitators may recommend and administer natural medicine services, a 
form of treatment, for certain behavioral, mental health, or substance use disorders.  
In the absence of an exemption under the Act, a facilitator may run the risk of being 
alleged to be engaged in the unlicensed practice of medicine. 
 
Clinical facilitators may provide natural medicine services to participants for the 
purpose of treating physical or behavioral/mental health conditions. 112 They are 
expected to use the skills gained from their medical training and their natural medicine 
training during the performance of facilitation services. For example, during a natural 
medicine preparation session, a clinical facilitator must conduct a safety health 
screening to ensure participants are able to safely receive natural medicine services.113 
For some participants with underlying health or behavioral health conditions, these 
safety screenings must be performed by clinical facilitators and may involve more 
complex medical screening. Similarly, following administration of natural medicine, 
clinical facilitators will conduct integration sessions for participants with behavioral 
health conditions, and those integration sessions may reasonably be expected to have 
 
109 4 CCR § 755-1-2.2(A)(2), Natural Medicine Licensure Rules and Regulations. 
110 4 CCR §§ 755-1-2.2(A)(6) and (7), Natural Medicine Licensure Rules and Regulations. 
111 Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies. Regulated Natural Medicines: Facilitator and Clinical Facilitator 
Path. Retrieved August 11, 2025, from: https://dpo.colorado.gov/NaturalMedicine 
112 4 CCR § 755-1-2.2(A)(1), Natural Medicine Licensure Rules and Regulations. 
113 4 CCR § 755-1-2.2(A)(1), Natural Medicine Licensure Rules and Regulations. 
