 
 
45 | P a g e 
some overlap between facilitation and behavioral health treatment that would 
otherwise fall within the definition of the practice of medicine in the Act at section 12-
240-107(1)(b), C.R.S. 
 
“Natural medicine” is defined to include psilocybin and psilocin, and may be expanded 
to include ibogaine, dimethyltryptamine, and/or mescaline. 114 Each of these 
substances are Schedule I controlled substances, illegal under federal law but 
decriminalized under Colorado law. The recommendation or administration of such 
substances to patients in traditional medical communities is not widespread outside of 
its use in clinical trials; as a result, generally accepted standards of medical practice 
are unlikely to support a Board licensee’s administration of natural medicines to a 
patient outside of the Natural Medicine Program. Because the Natural Medicine Program 
is establishing standards of practice for clinical facilitators and facilitators, at this time 
it makes more sense for clinical facilitators who also are licensed by the Board to be 
evaluated on the standards of care being established by the Natural Medicine Program, 
rather than by the Board. 
 
In other words, while the Natural Medicine Program and the Board regulate licensees 
when they perform functions that fall under their respective jurisdictions, a clear 
exemption is needed within the Act for two reasons. First, facilitators who are properly 
performing services within the scope of their Natural Medicine licensure could be 
determined to be engaged in the unlicensed practice of medicine. Second, clinical 
facilitators who provide natural medicine services in accordance with the standards of 
care established within the Natural Medicine Program may, nevertheless, be 
determined to be deviating from generally accepted standards of medical practice 
because of their use of Schedule I controlled substances. 
 
For these reasons, the rendering of natural medicine services by individuals licensed by 
the Natural Medicine Program (including as a facilitator, clinical facilitator, 
distinguished educator facilitator, or facilitator in training) should be exempt from the 
Act while practicing within the scope of their Natural Medicine license.   
 
The second, third, and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight; 
 
If the program is necessary, whether the existing statutes and regulations 
establish the least restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent 
with the public interest, considering other available regulatory 
mechanisms; and 
 
 
114 §§ 12-170-104(12)(a) and (b), C.R.S. 
