Executive Order D 2026 014 
August 21, 2026 
Page 2 of 4 
 
increased wildfire risk. The days surrounding the fire starts were under nearly continuous Red 
Flag Warnings for extreme fire danger, and the National Weather Service office in Grand 
Junction issued a rare “Particularly Dangerous Situation” for portions of Western Colorado just 
prior to the fire starts. As a result of these dangerous conditions, Colorado is experiencing 
multiple wildfires in quick succession, requiring rapid response and resources to protect 
Coloradans and their homes and businesses.  
Beginning in late June, multiple fires started in Colorado. On June 27, 2026, the Snyder 
Mesa Fire started on federal land in Utah. The fire quickly crossed the Colorado-Utah border and 
combined with the Jones and Knowles Fires. On June 27, at approximately 7:20 PM, I verbally 
declared a disaster emergency due to the Snyder Mesa Fire in Mesa County. The Snyder Mesa 
Fire tragically took the lives of four federal firefighters who initially responded to the Knowles 
Fire. As of August 20, the Snyder Mesa Fire has burned 30,202 acres and is 100% contained.  
 On June 27, 2026, the Gold Mountain Fire started in Ouray County on private land with 
inaccessible terrain approximately 2 miles northeast of Ouray. On June 28, at approximately 9:38 
AM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency due to the Gold Mountain Fire in Ouray County. 
On July 1, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) approved a Fire Management 
Assistance Grant (FMAG) for the Gold Mountain Fire after determining that the fire threatened 
such destruction that the fire would constitute a major disaster. The FMAG for this fire 
authorized the use of federal funds to help with firefighting costs. The Gold Mountain Fire 
tragically took the life of a helicopter pilot assisting firefighters in their response efforts. As of 
August 20, the Gold Mountain Fire has burned 39,710 acres and is 87% contained.  
On June 28, 2026, the Willow Fire started in Lake County near the Leadville National 
Fish Hatchery. On June 29, at approximately 10:34 AM, I verbally declared a disaster emergency 
due to the Willow Fire in Lake County. On July 5, FEMA approved a FMAG for the Willow Fire 
after determining that the fire threatened such destruction that the fire would constitute a major 
disaster. The FMAG for this fire authorized the use of federal funds to help with firefighting 
costs. As of August 20, the Willow Fire has burned 7,534 acres and is 80% contained. 
On June 29, the Aspen Acres Fire started in Custer and Pueblo Counties near Aspen 
Acres Campground near Rye and Beulah. On June 29, at approximately 10:34 AM, I verbally 
declared a disaster emergency due to the Aspen Acres Fire in Custer and Pueblo Counties. On 
June 30, FEMA approved a FMAG for the Aspen Acres Fire after determining that the fire 
threatened such destruction that the fire would constitute a major disaster. The FMAG for this 
fire authorized the use of federal funds to help with firefighting costs. As of August 20, the 
Aspen Acres Fire has burned 102,004 acres, has destroyed 347 structures, and is 72% contained.  
 
