TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 6 – TRAFFIC SIGNING AND PAVEMENT MARKINGS    -    April 2023 Page 
93 
 
 
surfaces, a contrasting black edge to white lines and grooved into the 
pavement shall be utilized.  
2. 
All centerline striping shall be double yellow with each line being a minimum 
of 4 inches wide with 3-inches of separation.  All solid lines are 6 inches, 
while skips are 4 inches. Transitional skips or intersection skips are 6” by 3’ 
with 5’ spacing. Other line widths shall be as specified by the Town.   
3. 
Paint material may be used upon approval by the Traffic Engineering and 
Operations Division if roadway geometry is not at full build out.  
4. 
The type of material and the application process to be used must be 
approved by the Town’s Traffic Engineering Division. 
 
 PAVEMENT MARKINGS DESIGN CRITERIA 
 
 
Pavement Markings  
1. 
Unless otherwise required by Town Public Works Department, all non-
signalized or non-roundabout permanent lateral pavement striping (stop 
bars, crosswalk lines, etc.) shall be the paint type specified by the current 
CDOT standard.  Reflective beads shall be applied in accordance with CDOT’s 
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and the 
manufacturer’s requirements. Durable, thermoplastic type marking material 
shall be used at roundabouts and signalized intersections. On arterial and 
collector class roadways stop bars, symbols, and crosswalk lines need to be 
durable, thermoplastic type marking material.  
2. 
All stop bars shall be white and a minimum of 24 inches wide.  
3. 
All pavement markings on concrete must be recessed with contrasting black 
edging.  
4. 
All thermoplastic pavement markings shall be recessed and installed per 
manufacturer’s specifications.  
5. 
Crosswalk bars shall be white.  At signalized intersections, minimum 
crosswalk bar dimensions shall be 2 feet by 10 feet.  At other locations, 
crosswalk bar dimensions shall be 2 feet by 6 feet.   
 
