TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 48 
 
 
3. 
The Recovery Zone is the area adjacent to a roadway that is needed to 
recover a vehicle when it leaves the roadway.  This area must meet certain 
slope requirements and be clear from any obstructions or additional safety 
measures may be required.  On foreslopes (also called fillslopes) a slope of 
4:1 or flatter is considered recoverable.  Non-recoverable foreslopes (slopes 
ranging from 3:1 to 4:1) shall be designed in accordance with the latest 
AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.  Critical foreslopes (slopes steeper than 
4:1) shall require guardrail or other form of roadside barrier if closer to the 
traveled roadway than the recommended clear zone distance.  
4. 
The Clear Zone is the distance necessary to meet the recovery zone slope 
requirements for safe recovery of a motor vehicle in the event it leaves the 
roadway.  Acceptable clear zone distance shall be determined utilizing the 
latest version of the AASHTO Roadside Design Guide for determining clear 
zone distance. 
 
 
Obstructions 
Roadside obstructions include both non-traversable terrain and fixed objects 
(inlets, trees, buildings, pedestrians, etc.).  Roadside obstructions within the 
clear zone are strongly discouraged.  In the event that obstructions do exist 
within the clear zone, roadside barrier warrants shall be checked to determine 
if a roadside barrier is necessary. Curb alone is not a sufficient roadside 
barrier. In the event warrants are met, the applicant shall be responsible for 
providing an acceptable type of roadside barrier. 
 
 
Guard Rail 
Guard Rail requirements shall meet or exceed the minimum standards set for 
in the AASHTO Roadside Design Guide.  Guard Rail options may also be 
selected using the CDOT Standards. 
 
 OFFSITE DESIGN 
1. 
The design grade, and existing ground at the design grade, of all roadways 
that dead end due to project phasing, subdivision boundaries, etc., shall be 
continued, in the same plan and profile as the proposed design, for at least 
five hundred (500) feet or to its intersection with an arterial roadway as 
