TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS    -    April 2023 
 
 
Page 7 
 
arterial routes.  The number of street access points between the local circulation system 
and arterial system should be minimized.  Intersections along arterial routes should be 
properly spaced for efficient signalization and traffic flow.  The streets that do intersect 
the arterial system will tend to have higher volumes since they are the only access 
points. 
 
Vehicle Speeds Are Controlled – All streets should be designed to eliminate excessive 
speed.  On residential streets the ideal speed of vehicles should be no more than 25 
mph.  This can be accomplished through the use of curvilinear alignments and circuitous 
routes in the street system.  Traffic calming devices placed along residential streets at 
distances no greater than 600 feet, along uninterrupted stretches, may also be utilized.  
The designer must utilize one or a combination of the above principles to keep the 85th 
percentile speed at or below 25 mph, for residential streets.  The design criteria for the 
traffic “calming” elements included in these Criteria (See Section 11 – Neighborhood 
Traffic Management) are intended for use in the design of residential streets within 
newly developing neighborhoods.   Traffic calming techniques and criteria to be used in 
existing neighborhoods are included in the Town’s Neighborhood Traffic Calming 
Program that has been reviewed and approved by Town Council. 
 
Minimize Pedestrian & Vehicular Conflicts – Pedestrian travel from within a residential 
area to points outside should require a minimum number of street crossings.  This can 
often be achieved through proper design of street patterns, land use arrangements and 
pedestrian routes.  Typical methods include use of cul-de-sacs, loop streets, special 
pedestrian routes or walkways and the proper placement of high pedestrian traffic 
generators.  In general, while vehicular flow must be outward oriented to the peripheral 
arterials, pedestrian travel should be inward-oriented to avoid these heavier vehicular 
flows. 
 
Minimize Space Devoted to Street Use – It is desirable to minimize local street widths 
to reduce construction and maintenance costs as well as to allow for the most economic 
land use.  Streets should also have an appearance commensurate with their function.  
They should be in keeping with the residential character.  The street cross section 
options provided by the Town are intended to achieve this goal. 
 
Topography is Used to Its’ Advantage – Local streets will be more attractive and 
economical if they are constructed to follow existing topography.  Using the existing 
topography of the area can assist in limiting the needs for an extensive storm drainage 
piping system.  The streets will also be more accessible during inclement weather.  
 
