TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3 – ACCESS REQUIREMENTS & CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 66 
 
 
 
 BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR CURB OPENINGS AND DRIVEWAYS 
 
 
Curb Openings 
1. 
Certain design criteria for curb openings and driveways require minimum 
dimensions in some instances and maximum dimensions in others.  The 
design of curb openings and driveways within the range of these dimensions 
will provide for good service on the part of the motorist using the driveway 
while at the same time minimizing the interference to the traffic using the 
street.  By controlling the location and width of openings or driveways along 
the street, it will be possible to avoid or eliminate long open stretches 
where motorists can indiscriminately access onto the street.  The width of 
opening established in these Criteria is based on studies, which indicate that 
the various width openings will accommodate vehicles of maximum size 
authorized on our Town Streets.  In case of conflict between requirements 
in the various sections of these Criteria, the more restrictive condition shall 
normally apply.   
2. 
The curb opening or driveway width should be adequate to properly handle 
the anticipated traffic volume and traffic characteristics, as well as being 
within the limits specified for the type of property development.   
3. 
The curb opening or driveway shall be designed to accommodate 
emergency response vehicles. 
4. 
See Section 2.2.3 Driveways criteria. 
 
 
Sight Distance   
1. 
All openings for driveways shall be located at the point of optimum sight 
distance along the street.  For openings and driveways to commercial 
establishments and service stations there shall be sufficient space 
reasonably cleared of any obstructions such that drivers entering the 
property will have sufficient sight distance to enable them to make proper 
and safe movements.  The profile of a driveway approach and the grading of 
the adjacent area shall be such that when a vehicle is located on the 
driveway outside the traveled portion of the street the driver can see a 
sufficient distance in both directions so as to enable the driver to enter the 
