TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 38 
 
 
2. 
The use of superelevation on Town roadways with a design speed of 45 mph 
may be considered on a case-by-case basis as determined by the Public 
Works Department.  If approved, such roadways shall be designed in 
conformance with these standards and the AASHTO “Green Book”. 
 
 
 Sight Distance – Horizontal Alignment 
1. 
The major considerations in alignment design are safety, grade, profile, road 
area, design speed, sight distance, topography, drainage, and performance 
of heavy-duty vehicles.  Alignment should provide for safe and continuous 
operation at a uniform design speed.  Road layout shall bear a logical 
relationship to existing or platted roads in adjacent properties. 
2. 
The horizontal alignment must provide at least the minimum stopping 
distance for the design speed at all points.  This includes visibility at 
intersections as well as around curves and roadside encroachments. 
3. 
The lateral clearance, the distance from the inner edge of pavement to sight 
obstructions, for various radii of inner edge of pavement and design speeds, 
is shown graphically in the AASHTO “Green Book”.  The position of the 
driver’s eye and the object sighted are assumed to be 6 feet from the inner 
edge of pavement, with the stopping sight distance being measured along 
this arc. 
4. 
Whenever possible, intersections shall be made at right angles or radial to a 
curve.  No intersecting angle less than 80 degrees will be allowed. 
 
 
Stopping Sight Distance  
1. 
See Table 2.2 for minimum stopping sight distance for the roads design 
speed. 
2. 
The minimum stopping sight distance is the distance required by the driver 
of a vehicle traveling at the design speed to bring the vehicle to a stop after 
an object on the road becomes visible.  Stopping sight distance is calculated 
in accordance with the AASHTO “Green Book”, latest edition.   
3. 
Where an object off the pavement or in the median that restricts sight 
distance, the minimum radius of curvature is determined by the stopping 
sight distance.  In no case shall the stopping sight distance be less than as 
