TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 21 
 
 
5. 
Cul-de-sacs & Knuckles 
Cul-de-sacs may be permitted if no other street layout is possible.  
Knuckles are not permitted.  Cul-de-sacs may be a maximum of 600 
feet in length, measured from the right-of-way line of the intersecting 
street to the end of the cul-de-sac, and shall have a maximum of 25 
lots.  For cul-de-sac lengths in excess of 600 feet to be permitted, the 
Town of Castle Rock Fire Department shall determine the necessity of 
automatic sprinkler systems in structures beyond 600 feet.   Any cul-
de-sac in excess of 1,200 feet will require the approval of the Town of 
Castle Rock Fire Department.  For cul-de-sacs in excess of 600 feet, a 
maximum of 40 dwelling units will be permitted.  The traffic impact 
analysis must be able to show that the maximum traffic volume on a 
cul-de-sac within this type of area will not serve more than 1,000 vpd.  
See the Town of Castle Rock Detail Plans for cul-de-sac specifications.  
See Section 2.8 for additional criteria. 
6. 
Right-of-Way  
See Appendix A for the typical sections showing the minimum right-of-
way width. Additional right-of-way may be required for auxiliary lanes.  
Sight distance triangles should be accounted for with restrictions, 
easements or within the right-of-way.   
7. 
Technical Design Criteria 
The technical design criteria for industrial streets can be found in 
Tables 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5.  Typical sections are included in Appendix 
A. 
 
 
  Collector – Minor Residential 
1. 
Street Function and Characteristics 
 A minor residential collector street is a general term denoting a street 
whose primary purpose is to move traffic through a residential area to 
major roadways outside of the neighborhood.    While they should be 
continuous, care must be taken to ensure that they do not function as 
arterials or encourage “cut-through” traffic within residential 
neighborhoods. 
