TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS    -    April 2023 
 
 
Page 8 
 
Layout Streets to Achieve Optimum Subdivision of Land – The arrangement of streets 
should permit economical and practical patterns, shapes and sizes of development 
parcels.  Distances between streets, the number of streets, and related elements all 
have a bearing on the efficiency of a subdivision.  Access to adjoining properties and 
links to other streets is encouraged.  Access type to residential lots, front loaded versus 
alley loaded, should be consistent within a block or similar group of blocks.  
 
New Private Street Development - Private streets will not be permitted within single-
family residential zoned areas of all new developments that include one family or two-
family dwellings as defined in the Municipal Code. For purposes of this policy, and in 
order to distinguish between a driveway, a private street includes curb and gutter, 
however this policy shall not preclude private shared driveways.  Private streets will be 
permitted for new single-family home projects where there will be a single 
owner/association/district of all the homes in the project.  
 
 
Phased Street Construction - Where streets longer than 150 feet temporarily dead end 
due to phasing, an interim turnaround shall be required.  Each dead end shall be 
provisioned with signage per MUTCD.  
 
Ensure Vehicular, Pedestrian and Bicycle Access –The complete transportation system 
should encourage and enhance bicycle, pedestrian and other non-motorized travel 
modes.  Designers shall accommodate direct bicycle, pedestrian, and other non-
motorized access through drainage channels tracts, dead ends, walls, cul-de-sacs, open 
space, and other barriers to reach neighborhood destinations such as homes, schools, 
parks, libraries, retail centers, civic spaces, and other trip generators.  Where needed, as 
determined by the Town and to meet all current ADA standards, street designs shall 
include appropriate ramps, sidewalks, and other basic amenities to facilitate and 
encourage non-motorized transportation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
