TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 – PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES    -    April 2023 
Page 111 
 
 
 GENERAL 
This section sets forth the minimum criteria to be used in the design of all 
pedestrian and bicycle facilities within the Town of Castle Rock’s rights-of-way 
or easements.  This section does not apply to recreational use trails. 
 
 
 Definition of Terms 
The different types of pedestrian and bicycle facilities referred to in this 
chapter are described below.  Collectively these terms are referred to as 
pedestrian and bicycle facilities. 
1. 
Multi-use trails – are located off-street in and through parks and open space 
areas.  They are typically paved and 8-10 feet in width.  They can 
accommodate a variety of users such as pedestrians, bicyclists and skaters.   
2. 
Multi-use sidepaths – are located off-street next to arterial and collector 
streets.  They are typically paved 8-10 feet wide and are located within the 
street right-of way. They can accommodate a variety of users such as 
pedestrians, bicyclists, and skaters.  
3. 
On-street bike lanes – are located on streets and are normally 6 feet wide 
(measured from curb face) and are marked and signed for bicycle travel.  
4. 
Sidewalks – are typically located in residential areas and are generally 5 feet 
in width.  They are typically used by pedestrians.  
 
 
 General Criteria 
1. 
All projects shall optimize pedestrian and bicycle travel within the Town by 
providing sidewalks, multi-use sidepaths, multi-use trails and on-street bike 
lanes in all new developments in accordance with the applicable 
development regulations, the Town’s Transportation Master Plan, the 
Town's trails plan, the Town’s Bike Marking and Signage Policy, and other 
transportation documents 
2. 
In this chapter the AASHTO’s “Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and 
Streets (“Greenbook”) and the “Guide for the Development of Bicycle 
Facilities” as published by the American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials was used as a reference.   
