TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 15 – SITE EARTHWORK AND GRADING    -    April 2023 
Page 154 
 
 
 The maximum dimension of any piece used shall be 6". 
 Pieces larger than 4" shall not be placed within 12" of any structure. 
 Pieces larger than 3" shall not be placed within 12" of the subgrade for 
paving.  
 Voids caused by concentrations of large pieces shall not be permitted. 
  
5. 
Before placing the material for the compacted fills, the subgrade shall be 
moistened, compacted and scarified, according to the requirements set 
forth for subsequent layers of fill. The fill material shall be placed in 
approximately horizontal, evenly-distributed layers not exceeding 8" in 
depth.  Each layer of fill material should cover the full length and width of 
the entire area to be filled before the next higher layer of material is placed. 
After each layer of fill has been spread, worked and properly moistened, it 
shall be compacted to produce the specified density. Each layer should be 
keyed one layer to another. Grading shall be performed so that the finished 
surfaces are in uniform planes with no abrupt breaks in the surfaces. 
6. 
Each layer of fill shall be moistened as necessary. Material, which is over 
optimum moisture content in amounts to cause "pumping" or "heaving", 
shall not be incorporated into the work. In case any layer of fill is too wet to 
attain the specified density, the compacting work shall be delayed until the 
material has dried sufficiently to attain said density. Moisture content shall 
not vary on the dry side by more than 2.0% of optimum. 
7. 
Hauling material on or across existing roadways using scrapers or other non-
wheeled heavy equipment will only be allowed on a case-by-case basis.  
Additional requirements related to protection and maintenance of the 
existing roadway(s) will be required before approval is granted. For further 
information on temporary roadway crossings see the Temporary Erosion 
and Sediment Control (TESC) Manual. 
 
 
