TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3 – ACCESS REQUIREMENTS & CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 69 
 
 
6. 
Residential – Property used primarily for residential purposes such a single 
family, two family and multi-family units. 
7. 
Single Family (SF) Residential – Single, detached family dwelling units or 
double bungalows or duplexes. 
8. 
Multi Family (MF) Residential – Three or more attached dwelling units 
including townhouses, condominiums and apartments.  
9. 
Commercial – Establishments where buying and selling of commodities, 
entertainment or services is carried on, excluding services stations.  Included 
are such uses as office building, restaurants, hotels, motels, banks, grocery 
stores, theaters, parking lots, trailer courts, public buildings 
10. 
Industrial – Establishments that manufacture or store an article or product.   
11. 
Service Station – Any property where flammable liquids used as motor 
vehicle fuel are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into fuel tanks 
of motor vehicles. 
 
 GENERAL ACCESS REQUIREMENTS 
 
 
Number of Openings 
1. 
SF Residential – In general, each SF residential property shall be limited to 
one access point. Additional access points shall be reviewed by the Town on 
a case by case basis. 
2. 
MF Residential – In general, access shall be determined by information 
provided by owner/developer in the Traffic Impact Analysis and by 
comments generated during Town’s review and acceptance of the traffic 
study. 
3. 
Commercial and Industrial – In general, commercial and industrial 
properties having less than 150-feet of frontage and located mid-block shall 
be limited to one access point to the street. An exception to this rule may be 
where a building is constructed in the middle of the lot and parking is 
provided for on each side of the building.  A second access point may be 
allowed for commercial property located on a corner for properties having 
greater than 150-feet of frontage, if the additional proposed access is 
