TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7 – TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS   -  April 2023 
Page 101 
 
 
hour of the generator traffic data at the study intersections should be 
no older than six months one year. Any additional traffic counts that 
may be necessary are the responsibility of the Developer. All traffic 
count data shall be included in an Appendix to the TIA.  Forty-eight (48) 
hour traffic counts should be performed within Tuesday through 
Thursday and used to determine the “average daily traffic”.  Traffic 
counts shall not be done during a week containing a holiday, or school 
break.  
 The existing transit facilities within one-quarter mile of the project 
should be described, if necessary. 
 The description of the existing bicycle and pedestrian facilities shall 
include any facilities directly adjacent to the project site and within 
one-quarter mile. Analysis of pedestrian destinations, which are farther 
than one-quarter mile, may be necessary given particular site 
circumstances or the proposed project and land use (for example, the 
schools that will serve a residential development) 
 If there are bicycle facilities, the type of facility (e.g. bike route, bike 
lane, sidepath, trail) shall be described.  If the facility does not meet 
accepted standards or the Town’s criteria, the TIA needs to note this 
information. 
 Special attention shall be given to the bicycle and pedestrian 
connections to specific uses such as schools, parks, transit stops, 
employment centers, commercial areas, shopping, and adjacent land 
uses. 
2. 
       Existing Levels of Service 
 The existing levels of service (LOS) of the transportation system 
adjacent to the project site shall be determined.  This includes the LOS 
for the adjacent roadways and for intersections within the study area.  
The study area shall be approved by the Town’s Traffic Engineer or 
Planner and may include streets and intersections not immediately 
adjacent to the project.   All LOS calculations shall be determined based 
