TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 39 
 
 
specified in AASHTO “Green Book”.  A likely obstruction may be a bridge 
abutment, a line of columns, walls, fences, cut slopes, or buildings. 
4. 
The sight distance design procedure shall assume a 6’–0” fence (as 
measured from actual finished grade) exists at all property lines except in 
the sight-distance triangles required at all intersections. 
 
 
 Approach Sight Distance  
Intersections with yield signs or no traffic control 
1. 
Sight Triangle – There shall be an unobstructed sight distance along both 
approaches of both sides at an intersection and across their included 
corners for distances sufficient to allow the operators of vehicles, 
approaching simultaneously, to see each other in time to prevent collisions 
at the intersection.  The sight triangle shall meet requirements found in 
AASHTO “Green Book”.  See Section 2.3.8 for sight distance line criteria. 
These criteria also require the elimination of parking within the sight 
triangles on non-local roads and applies whether the intersecting roads 
are level or on grades.  
 
 
Departure Sight Distance  
Intersection Sight Distance from stop condition 
1. 
The clear sight line for viewing traffic approaching from both the left and the 
right shall use the minimum intersection sight distance detailed in the 
AASHTO “Green Book”.  See Section 2.3.8 for sight triangle restrictions. 
2. 
To determine the clear sight distance for viewing traffic approaching from 
the left, see AASHTO “Green Book” for the dimension of Leg “b” of the 
Departure Sight Triangle.  Leg “a” for a two-lane road shall always be ½ of 
the lane width + 14.5 feet.  See Figure 2.1  
3. 
To determine the clear sight distance for viewing traffic approaching from 
the right, see AASHTO “Green Book” for the dimension of Leg “b” of the 
Departure Sight Triangle.  Leg “a” for a two-lane roadway shall always be 1 
lane + ½ of a lane width + 14.5 feet.  The distance for Leg A and the 
distances shown in AASHTO “Green Book” will vary based on the width of 
the roadway. See Figure 2.1 
