TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 16 – Wireless Communication Facilities  -  April 2023          Page 158 
 
 
5. 
For all existing poles, whether Core Electric Cooperative or Town owned, 
documentation verifying the location is eligible for use as a small cell facility  
6. 
Plans showing site plan, photo simulation, elevation / plan views of the 
small cell facility, engineering design, and specifications for installation of 
the small cell facility, including the location of radios, antenna facilities, 
transmitters, equipment shelters, cables, conduit, point of demarcation, 
backhaul solution, electrical distribution panel, electric meter, electrical 
conduit and cabling, location of any potholes, pullboxes and all other 
associated equipment. The design documents shall also include 
specifications and detail drawings on all replacement pole designs and 
caissons. For replacement traffic signal poles, this includes an engineering 
analysis showing that the given small cell facility location meets specific 
loading criteria and required AASHTO standards. Such information shall be 
prepared by a Professional Engineer licensed in the State of Colorado.  
 The plans shall show existing sidewalk size, existing utilities per 
subsurface utility legal requirements, existing trees and other existing 
improvements. 
 The plans shall include a separate sheet showing traffic control signs 
and equipment. 
7. 
A signal interference letter and analysis from a qualified radio frequency 
engineer certifying, all WCFs that are the subject of the application shall be 
designed, sited and operated in accordance with applicable federal 
regulations addressing radio frequency interference, and that a technical 
evaluation of existing and proposed facilities indicates no potential 
interference problems. 
8. 
A radio frequency emissions statement and the proposed notification 
signage to be posted at the small cell facility location  
9. 
A completed Town of Castle Rock small cell facility application submittal 
checklist 
10. 
Upon receipt of a full Supplemental Site License submittal, the Town shall 
process the request within ninety (90) days or as determined by 
Development Services Department, or within such other time as designated 
by applicable law 
