TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS    -    April 2023 
 
 
Page 2 
 
 GENERAL INFORMATION 
 
 
 
Scope 
This manual provides minimum design criteria for planning, designing, and preparing 
final plans for modifying and constructing transportation facilities within the Town of 
Castle Rock.  It addresses traffic impact analysis, rights-of-way considerations, street 
geometrics, traffic signal design, signs and markings, transit amenities, bikeways, 
pedestrian facilities, neighborhood traffic calming, pavement design and wireless 
facilities.  All development and redevelopment of sites, or any other proposed 
construction submitted for acceptance under the provisions of the Town of Castle Rock 
Development Procedures Manual (hereafter Procedures Manual) shall include adequate 
and appropriate transportation system planning, analysis, and design.   
 
 APPLICABILITY OF CRITERIA 
 
These criteria and design standards together with all future amendments shall be known 
as the Town of Castle Rock Transportation Design Criteria Manual (hereafter 
“Criteria”).  All reports, plans, analyses, and proposed transportation improvement 
designs submitted as a requirement of the Procedures Manual shall comply with these 
Criteria.  
 
 ENACTMENT AUTHORITY 
 
The Procedures Manual has been adopted pursuant to the statutory authority conferred 
within:  Article 28 of Title 30 (County Planning); Article 2 of Title 43 (State, County, and 
City Highway Systems); Article 67 of Title 24 (Planned Unit Development Act); Article 20 
of Title 29 (Land Use Control and Conservation); and other applicable sections of 
Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended.   
 
 JURISDICTION 
 
These Criteria shall apply to all land within the incorporated area of the Town of Castle 
Rock, including any public lands.  These Criteria shall apply to all developments and 
facilities constructed in or on Town Rights-of-Way, easements dedicated for utilities 
across public or private property, easements for public use.  These Criteria shall also 
apply to privately owned streets that have the same functionality as public streets i.e. 
streets that provide a direct thoroughfare between two public streets, excluding multi-
family driveways. 
