TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3 – ACCESS REQUIREMENTS & CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 61 
 
 
3. 
All access onto State Highways is controlled by the CDOT.  The Town of 
Castle Rock has no jurisdictional authority over access onto a State Highway.  
The Town reserves the right to deny any proposed access location, including 
access that may meet CDOT requirements.  The Town is not the issuing 
authority for access permits on State Highways.  
 
 
   Interstate 25 
1. 
CDOT and FHWA rules and regulations shall apply to all Interstate Highways. 
2. 
CDOT and the FHWA control all accesses onto interstates.  The Town has no 
jurisdictional authority over access onto an interstate.  The Town reserves 
the right to deny any proposed access location, including access that may 
meet CDOT and FHWA requirements 
 
 
  Major Arterials   
1. 
A detailed Traffic Impact Analysis (see Section 7) shall be completed for any 
proposed access point to a major arterial to ensure adequate levels of 
service can be maintained if the access is allowed to be constructed.  An 
Access Management Plan may be required. 
2. 
Generally, no private direct access onto major arterials shall be permitted 
unless a signal progression plan has been approved and it is determined that 
the proposed access will cause no significant impacts to traffic operations.  
Private direct access to a major arterial may be permitted only when the 
property in question has no other reasonable access to the general roadway 
network, or when denial of a direct access to a major arterial will cause 
unacceptable traffic conditions and/or safety problems on an alternative 
lower classified roadway.  When direct private access must be provided on a 
major arterial roadway, the following shall be considered prior to approval 
of the proposed access location: 
 Such access shall continue only until such time that some other 
reasonable access to a lower classification roadway is available and 
permitted.  The approval documents should specify the future 
reasonable access location, if known, and under what circumstances 
the modifications will be triggered and what changes will be required.  
