TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 16 – Wireless Communication Facilities  -  April 2023          Page 162 
 
 
discretion of the Town.  The Town may require the WCF owner to apply 
for the ROW Permit online. 
 Building Permit form, completed and signed for electrical and 
structural installations.  
 Permit fee (inspection and use tax) (see Development Services Fee 
Schedule) 
 Approved Haul Route (if needed) 
 Street / Lane Closure Application and traffic control plan (if needed). A 
traffic control plan (TCP) shall meet all the requirements of the Manual 
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), latest revision, and shall 
be prepared by a certified ATSSA traffic control supervisor or licensed 
professional engineer qualified in transportation engineering. 
 For small cell installations using Town traffic signal poles, the personnel 
involved in the installations work must hold at least a Level II IMSA 
Traffic Signal certification to demonstrate comprehension of traffic 
signal operations and construction. Certification cards that document 
these certifications may be requested by the Town.   
 Performance Surety with Town approved language for public 
improvements, if applicable. 
 
 
Maintenance 
1. 
Any installation or servicing of equipment located on traffic signal poles or 
Town owned streetlights shall be coordinated with the Town’s Traffic 
Engineering Division a minimum of three business days in advance and may 
necessitate a ROW permit. A Street / Lane Closure application and traffic 
control plan will be required for any maintenance work that requires a lane 
closure.   
2. 
Any public rights-of-way, public property or private property that is 
disturbed or damaged during, or as a result of, the construction, 
reconstruction, repair, replacement, removal, relocation, operation or 
maintenance of any WCFs by the applicant shall be promptly repaired to the 
reasonable satisfaction of the Town by the applicant at its sole expense. The 
