TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3 – ACCESS REQUIREMENTS & CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 62 
 
 
 No more than one access shall be provided to an individual parcel or to 
contiguous parcels under the same ownership unless it can be shown 
that: (1) allowing only one access conflicts with safety regulations (i.e. 
Fire access), or (2) additional access would significantly benefit safety 
and operation of the major arterial and is necessary to the safe and 
efficient use of the property.  
 An access shall be limited to right-turn only movements, unless (1) it 
has the potential for future signalization or a roundabout, (2) left turns 
would not create unreasonable congestion or safety problems and 
lower the overall intersection level of service, and (3) alternatives to 
the left turn movements would cause unacceptable traffic conditions 
and safety problems to the general roadway network. 
3. 
Direct public access onto a major arterial roadway, where left turns are 
permitted, shall meet the signalization spacing criteria in Section 3.1.3.4  
Those that do not meet these requirements shall be limited to right turn 
only movements unless they meet the requirements in Section 3.1.3.4.C.    
No local streets shall be permitted to intersect with major arterials.  
However, in some situations, Entry Streets may be used to transition from a 
local street to a major arterial. 
4. 
Spacing and Signalization Criteria: 
 Refer to Figure 3.1 for spacing requirements. 
 In general terms, full access to major arterials shall be limited to one-
half (1/2) mile intervals or more, plus or minus 200-feet, in order to 
achieve good speed, capacity and optimal signal progression.  
 An approved traffic engineering analysis of signal progression shall be 
completed to properly locate any proposed access that may require 
signalization.  The consultant for the applicant shall contact the Town’s 
Traffic Engineering Division for direction in preparing the signal 
progression analysis. 
 
