TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 18 
 
 
2 – Sidewalk planting strip, and underdrain easements must be provided if minimum 
right-of-way width is utilized. 
3 - The location of the sidewalk will be considered when determining the front setback.  
The setback should provide for parking in the driveway, without blocking the sidewalk. 
4 - For streets without curb, roadside drainage swales will be necessary with drainage 
easements.  The HOA, District or adjacent property owner will be required to maintain 
the roadside drainage swale and driveway culverts. 
5 - Sidewalks on both sides of the street are required unless it is demonstrated that one 
sidewalk is adequate due to the character and/or density of the proposed neighborhood.  
For example: houses limited to one side of street; pedestrian routes are met through a 
separate trail network. 
6 - 26’ street widths will be considered for the lower densities of this category (2.1-3.0 
DUs per acre).  For 26’ streets in higher densities (3.1–4.0 DUs per acre) the developer 
must demonstrate that parking is not necessary on both sides of the street due to 
circumstances such as: housing on one side of the street; housing product where on-
street parking is less likely. 
7 - The Town may apply different housing density categories to different neighborhoods 
of the same subdivision.  
 
 
   Local Mixed-Use Streets 
1. 
Street Function and Characteristics: 
 A local mixed-use street is a general term denoting a roadway serving 
an area with intentionally mixed commercial and residential uses. 
These streets provide direct access to high density development with 
compatible uses separated horizontally or vertically within the same or 
multiple buildings.   
 The streets should be designed to accommodate and encourage 
pedestrian and bicycle activity.  When necessary, traffic calming 
measures may be required on lengths of street where average vehicle 
speeds can be expected to exceed the posted speed limit.  This will 
normally occur when there are unobstructed segments of street in 
excess of 600 ft.  See Section 11 - Neighborhood Traffic Management. 
 Parking is allowed on this street classification, however parking is 
restricted within 30 feet of the PCR on approaches where traffic 
control is present. All other approaches and departures shall have no 
parking or driveway access within 20-feet of the PCR. 
