TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 – PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES    -    April 2023 
Page 120 
 
 
7. 
Where no curb and gutter exists on a road that requires sidewalks, the Town 
may require curb and gutter installation in addition to the installation of the 
sidewalk.  
8. 
A sidewalk may be constructed so as to provide a gradual meander and to 
facilitate the installation of landscape material or to avoid existing obstacles 
such as power poles, trees, fire hydrants, street lights, etc.  
9. 
The design of the sidewalk shall be such that pedestrian safety is provided 
and the usability of the sidewalk is not affected. 
10. 
All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete.  Alternative type materials, 
such as asphalt, may be presented to the Town’s Public Works Department 
for consideration. Pervious materials not meeting ADA requirements shall 
not be allowed due to concerns for pedestrian accessibility/usability and 
maintenance costs.  
11. 
Pipes, drains, flumes or other concentrated stormwater devices shall not 
discharge across a sidewalk, but rather shall be piped or flumed under the 
sidewalk. 
12. 
Minimum sidewalk widths for the various street classifications shall be as 
specified in Appendix A - Typical Cross Sections. The Town may require 
additional width within activity areas and for routes leading to and from 
these areas.  The final sidewalk width shall be determined through 
additional study of higher pedestrian traffic areas. Refer to Section 2 for 
Downtown sidewalk widths.  
13. 
All sidewalks that cross driveways and alleys shall be designed in accordance 
with ADA and AASHTO. 
14. 
All street designs shall include sidewalks on both sides of the street.  
15. 
In all existing areas previously developed, sidewalks, curbs, and gutters may 
be required to match existing conditions or standards, as determined by the 
Town. 
16. 
When a sidewalk must be widened, the widening shall only be allowed for 
an increased width of 4 feet or more.  If the added width needed is less than 
4 feet, the existing walk shall be removed and reconstructed to the new 
required width. 
