TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 16 – Wireless Communication Facilities  -  April 2023          Page 159 
 
 
  
 Technical / Site Requirements 
  
 
General requirements 
The following design guidelines are in support of or in addition to those 
outlined in Section 17.60.050 of the Municipal Code and the applicable 
sections (i.e. lighting) of the Transportation Design Criteria Manual. The 
intent of these requirements is to minimize the roadside visual clutter of 
utility infrastructure as much as possible, and to be as consistent as 
possible with the “look” of existing infrastructure. 
1. 
All WCF equipment and cabling shall be internal to the pole structure and 
shrouded from view, this includes any equipment at ground level. 
2. 
All pole base installations should be consistent with surrounding utility base 
designs and shall be smooth and straight with limited flat surfaces at the 
transition between the base cabinet and the upper pole. 
3. 
All cantenna transitions shall be smooth (see center below) or tapered (see 
right below) between the upper pole and the cantenna attachment and shall 
inconspicuously transition from the upper pole.  
4. 
Any replacement pole shall be in the same relative position and alignment 
as the pre-existing pole. 
5. 
All replacement poles shall comply with AASHTO Roadside Design guidelines 
and shall not be sited where sight distances for vehicular, bicycle or 
pedestrian travel would be impeded. Compliance to these guidelines shall 
be documented by engineering letter or on the plans. 
6. 
All replacement poles shall be placed to allow for safe use of the sidewalk in 
compliance with ADA standards.  Separation of the structure to edge of 
sidewalk shall meet the Town’s standards. Replacement poles shall not 
interfere with roadway pavement, public utilities, curb, or supporting 
subsurface structure. 
7. 
The replacement pole shall be structurally adequate to support the items on 
the pre-existing structure (i.e. light, signal heads etc.), at least two small cell 
installations, and maintain 10% remaining structural capacity. Compliance to 
