TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 13 – UTILITY INSTALLATION AND COORDINATION    -  April 2023 Page 
146 
 
 
 Engineer’s Certification Statement is required for the Subsurface Utility 
Engineering information.  See Town of Castle Rock Code Central for 
Certification Language.  
  
 Quality-level requirements for subsurface utility engineering vary by 
project phase and are as follows:  
• Project Planning – Quality Level D  
• Preliminary Design – Quality Level C  
• Final or 100% Design – Quality Level A and B.  
The above Quality Levels provide general guidance for project planning. Refer 
to C.R.S. 9-1.5 for exact Quality Level requirements.  Quality Level A is 
generally required at potential conflicts for water and gravity fed utilities in 
public right-of-ways and easements.  Quality Level A may not be required in 
areas without any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, other potential utility 
conflicts, paving or grading conflicts.  The highest level of accuracy and 
comprehensiveness is generally not needed at every point along a utility's 
path, only where conflicts with design features are most likely to occur. 
Hence, lesser levels of information may be appropriate at points where fewer 
conflicts or no conflicts are expected. A Colorado licensed Professional 
Engineer must determine the appropriate Quality Level based on C.R.S. 9-1.5 
and document the reasons why any facilities were not located to the 
particular Quality Level.  
 
 
 
Definitions of the Quality Levels are as follows:  
1. 
Quality Level D is the most basic level of investigation and includes verbal 
recollections and review of existing records such as as-built drawings, utility 
system drawings, permit logs, field sketches, site visit logbooks, old surveys, 
one-call marks, and prior SUE investigations by others.  
2. 
Quality Level C includes surveying those utilities that are visible above 
ground and use of surface features that indicate subsurface alignment such 
