TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 15 
 
 
parking or driveway access within 20-feet of the PCR.  See Table 2.1 for 
minimum design standards. 
2. 
Traffic control 
Traffic control for this type of street will normally be limited to stop 
and yield signs.  Roundabouts may be used in place of multi-way stop 
control.  Although discouraged, traffic signals may be needed at 
intersections with collector streets.  To prevent this, the design of the 
neighborhood street system should limit daily traffic volumes on 
streets to less than 1,500 vpd.   
3. 
Access Conditions 
Local residential streets should intersect with other local streets and 
minor collector streets.  Local residential streets should not intersect 
with major collectors or arterial streets. In some cases, an entry street 
may be used to connect a local street to a major collector or arterial.  
Access to commercial properties will not be allowed. See Figure 3.1 for 
intersection spacing.  See Section 3.1.6 for access criteria. 
4. 
Sidewalks and Bike Lanes 
Local residential streets shall have sidewalk on both sides of the street.  
See Table 2.1 for exceptions in neighborhoods where the housing 
density is considered Medium and Large Lot Residential.  Streets 
proposed to have a single sidewalk must accommodate pedestrian 
transitions from neighboring areas with sidewalks on both sides. Bike 
lanes are not necessary on local residential streets.  See Appendix A for 
typical cross sections.  See Section 8 – Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities. 
5. 
Cul-de-sacs & Knuckles 
 Cul-de-sacs may be incorporated into a neighborhood design.  A cul-de-
sac should have a maximum length of 600 ft. (measured from the right-
of-way line of the intersecting street to the end of the cul-de-sac), and 
a maximum of 25 dwelling units. For cul-de-sac lengths in excess of 600 
feet to be permitted, the Town of Castle Rock Fire Department shall 
determine the necessity of automatic sprinkler systems in structures 
beyond 600 feet. Any cul-de-sac in excess of 1,200 feet will require the 
approval of the Town of Castle Rock Fire Department.  For cul-de-sacs 
