TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 – PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES    -    April 2023 
Page 113 
 
 
 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA-OFF-STREET BICYCLE 
FACILITIES (Multi-Use Trails & Sidepaths) 
Off-Street bicycle facilities consist of multi-use trails and sidepaths.   In order 
to plan and construct multi-use trails and sidepaths in a consistent, usable and 
orderly fashion, it is necessary to establish basic standards and criteria. The 
standards and criteria in this section shall be utilized in the design and review 
of multi-use trails and sidepaths for all development projects. 
 
 
  Multi-Use Trail and Sidepath Width, Type and Surface 
1. 
 Multi-use trail and sidepath widths and surfaces shall be determined by the 
Town based on site conditions, expected usage, and street classification 
2. 
 Multi-use trails shall have a minimum finished surface width of 10 feet for 
two-way facilities. 
3. 
Multi-use sidepaths shall have a minimum width of 8 ft or 10 ft based on 
roadway classification.  
 
 
  Multi-use Trail and Sidepath Location 
1. 
Multi-use trail and sidepath locations shall be based on safety, circulation, 
and access considerations. Multi-use sidepaths designated on the Town’s 
Transportation Master Plan that are generally parallel to existing or 
proposed roadways shall be constructed within the street right-of-way.  Any 
location in which a sidepath is not within the dedicated street right-of-way 
must be privately maintained unless a sidepath easement dedicated to the 
Town of Castle Rock, is provided of sufficient width to allow for 
maintenance activities and equipment. The multi-use trail system shall make 
use of, but not be limited to, the drainage and open space areas. 
2. 
Where needed, an easement with a minimum width of 25 feet shall be 
provided for multi-use trails. 
 
 
  Clearance 
1. 
Where possible, multi-use trails and sidepaths shall be located so as to 
minimize the loss of trees and disruption of natural environmental 
