TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS    -    April 2023 
 
 
Page 6 
 
 
 Design Characteristics 
 
A local circulation system functions as a traffic management method, implemented to 
convey vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle traffic through developed areas.  Basic 
considerations in the design of local circulation systems must recognize the following 
factors: 
 
Safety – for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic. 
 
Efficiency of Service – for all users including pedestrians and bicyclists. 
 
Livability –as it is affected and shaped by traffic and transportation elements. 
 
Economy – balancing the cost of providing the necessary infrastructure with the need to 
provide safe and efficient roadways and other transportation elements. 
 
 
 Principles 
 
The following principles are an elaboration of these design characteristics.  The 
principles are not intended as absolute criteria, as instances may occur where principles 
conflict.  The principles should, therefore, be used as guidelines to design proper 
circulation systems layout. 
 
 
Universal Design – The primary function of a local street is to serve the abutting 
properties and all street users including pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers of passenger 
vehicles, waste removal vehicles, delivery trucks, and emergency vehicles.  Street 
widths, placement of sidewalks, patterns of streets and number of intersections are 
related to the safe and efficient access to abutting lands.  The typical street cross 
sections depicted in Appendix A are intended to accommodate and balance the needs of 
all users. 
 
Minimize Through Trips – Through traffic on local and collector streets increases the 
average speed and volume and thus the accident potential, thereby reducing residential 
amenities. Through traffic can be discouraged by creating a circuitous route between 
neighborhoods and higher volume streets and by channeling or controlling median 
crossings along peripheral routes. 
 
Control Access to Arterials – Local circulation systems and land development patterns 
should not detract from the efficiency of peripheral arterial facilities.  Ideally, land 
development should occur so that no local residential streets require direct access to 
