TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 – PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES    -    April 2023 
Page 116 
 
 
 
Safety Considerations 
1. 
A setback area is required between the edge of the multi-use sidepath and 
the back edge of curb and gutter. Five feet (5') is the minimum requirement. 
Multi-use trails shall not be constructed directly adjacent to street curb or 
street pavement, except at street intersections. 
2. 
Multi-use sidepaths adjacent to streets with speed limits exceeding twenty-
five (25) mph, and which have slopes greater than six percent (6%), may 
require special safety measures such as the installation of barriers or other 
safety devices or an increase in the distance between the bike path and 
street. 
3. 
Standard signing and markings from the MUTCD shall be included in the 
design and construction of the multi-use trails and sidepaths to alert users 
of potential hazards and to convey regulatory messages. 
4. 
The Design Engineer shall address stopping and intersection sight distance 
at all path intersections, curves, and particularly where steep grades are 
proposed at roadway intersections. Obstructions to the visibility of 
motorists or path/trail users shall be removed or the path/trail shall be 
aligned around the obstruction to maximize visibility 
5. 
Curb ramps conforming to ADA requirements will be provided at or near all 
curb crossings to allow continuity of use by bicyclists and persons with 
disabilities.  
6. 
All multi-use trails that cross a drainage channel shall require either a bridge 
or a fair weather crossing.  See Chapter 9, Bridges and Major Drainage 
Structures, for design requirements for bridges. 
7. 
In accordance with the Town’s Open Space and Trails Master Plan, grade-
separated crossings of major collectors and arterials may be required.  
When an underpass or overpass is being considered a feasibility study may 
be required to assess the costs, the number of users, safety and operations 
of the proposed structure.   
8. 
Railings, fences, or barriers on both sides of a multi-use trail or sidepath 
shall be at a minimum of 42” high.  Smooth rub rails should be attached to 
the barriers at approximate handlebar height of 42” if the barrier is within 2 
