TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 – PEDESTRIAN & BICYCLE FACILITIES    -    April 2023 
Page 119 
 
 
 STANDARDS AND CRITERIA – PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES 
(Sidewalks, Sidepaths and Curb Ramps) 
 
 
ADA Requirements 
All pedestrian facilities shall be designed in accordance with American 
Disabilities Act (ADA) regulations and the requirements of these Criteria  
 
Sidewalks / Sidepaths 
1. 
Sidewalks shall be constructed within the street right-of-way in accordance 
with Town Standards.  Any location in which sidewalk is not within the 
dedicated street right-of-way must be privately maintained unless a 
sidewalk easement dedicated to the Town of Castle Rock, is provided of 
sufficient width to allow for maintenance activities and equipment. 
2. 
The Downtown Mobility Master Plan (DMMP) is a planning tool for 
designing Downtown pedestrian and bicycle facilities.  
3. 
A sidepath is a multi-use sidewalk having a minimum width of 8 ft.  All 
design criteria for sidewalks, with the exception of width, shall apply to 
sidepaths. The Town has established a sidepath plan that complements the 
sidewalk/multi-use trail system.  This plan is included in the Town’s 
Transportation Master Plan.  The developer must review the latest version 
of the plan.  The requirement for sidepaths will eliminate the need for the 
sidewalks along the same segment of the street. 
4. 
Sidewalks shall be installed at the time of roadway construction or widening 
unless otherwise approved through the development review process.  The 
Public Works Department may allow the developer to pay a fee in lieu of 
constructing the sidewalk in certain locations. This fee must be paid prior to 
the issuance of the Construction Permit. 
5. 
Sidewalk shall be provided along streets within new developments and 
expansions of existing developments. 
6. 
The Town is receptive to reviewing alternate designs relative to the 
provision of pedestrian facilities. Such alternate designs may include 
greenways or a combination of sidewalks and greenways. The requirement 
for sidewalks may only be waived by the Town Council. 
