TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7 – TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS   -  April 2023 
Page 105 
 
 
 
  Site Design and Circulation Evaluation 
The project's site design shall be analyzed to determine if the proposed 
circulation system serves pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, and vehicles. 
The site design should be evaluated to determine if facilities for vehicles, 
pedestrians, bicycles and transit meet these Criteria. 
The project's site design should be evaluated to determine if traffic flows can 
be adequately accommodated. The on-site traffic flows should be evaluated 
to minimize areas where motorists would tend to speed, minimize potential 
conflict areas between vehicles and pedestrians/bicyclists, and to determine if 
circulation patterns are designed so as to avoid unnecessary traffic congestion 
and conflict points.   
 
  Transportation Impact Considerations 
The TIA will determine if the project will create any impacts at the study 
intersections and street segments surrounding the project site. In order to 
determine this, the peak hour levels of service at each of the study 
intersections will be evaluated for each of the following scenarios: 
• Total Existing Traffic Conditions 
• Future Total Traffic Conditions for each Study Year 
The level of service analysis for each of the traffic scenarios and Study years 
need to include mode split assumptions. The level of service findings shall be 
shown in the TIA in tabular form. 
 
 
   Minimum Acceptable Levels of Service 
Minimum acceptable level of service (LOS) for all intersections in the Town 
shall be LOS D, except in Downtown (excluding the Plum Creek Parkway 
intersections) where the minimum acceptable LOS shall be LOS E.  Where 
the LOS of the individual movements can be calculated, no through 
movements shall operate worse than LOS D. No left turn movements shall 
operate worse than LOS E, nor have queues that block through traffic 
during any peak hour.  When the LOS of an existing intersection doesn’t 
meet these criteria, the LOS of the intersection cannot be further degraded 
by traffic that will be generated by the proposed project without 
appropriate mitigation measures taken to keep the LOS at existing levels. 
 
