TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 49 
 
 
determined by the Public Works Department.  This limit shall be extended to 
one thousand (1,000) feet when arterial roadways are being designed. 
2. 
If the offsite roadway, adjacent to the proposed development is not fully 
improved, the developer is responsible for the design and construction of a 
transition for the safe conveyance of traffic from the improved section to 
the existing roadway.  The roadway transition should occur in the offsite 
area. 
 
 AUXILIARY LANES 
 
 
Deceleration & Acceleration Lanes 
1. 
The need for deceleration lanes shall be determined through an analysis in 
the approved Traffic Impact Analysis for the Site Plan or Final Development 
Plan. 
2. 
Requests for exemption from the requirements for deceleration lanes shall 
be based upon a traffic engineering study that presents trip generation data 
for the proposed development in terms of impacts upon through traffic 
flows.  Such requests shall be reviewed by the Town and may be approved, 
except if any of the following conditions exist during the long range traffic 
planning horizon: 
 For exemption of a right turn deceleration lane, the traffic volume in 
the travel lane must fall below 150 VPH during both the A.M. and P.M. 
peak hour. 
 For exemption of a left turn deceleration lane, the opposing traffic 
volume must fall below 100 VPH during both the A.M. and P.M. peak 
hour. 
 Other unique conditions that warrants special design consideration. 
3. 
Deceleration lanes may be required along segments of collector streets if 
the proposed development constitutes a potential for creating a traffic 
hazard or unnecessarily impedes through traffic movements.  In the event 
deceleration lanes are required for a collector roadway, the designing 
engineer shall conform to all of the deceleration lane design standards 
detailed in the latest edition of the AASHTO “Green Book”. 
