TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 14 – PAVEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 150 
 
 
1. 
The Town understands the need to consider emerging technologies in 
pavement design. In light of this, any alternate pavement design will be 
reviewed and considered with respect to the following criteria: 
-   Initial construction cost 
-   Life cycle cost 
-   Construction delay and impact 
-   Facility maintenance and ease of repair 
-   Pavement noise, smoothness 
-   Industry capacity and local contractor capability 
-   Special design provisions such as edge drains behind the curbs to    
intercept moisture from adjoining development and prevent it from 
adversely affecting the road subgrade and paving section.  
2. 
Public Works reserves the right to make the pavement type selection using 
these and/or other criteria on Town funded projects. 
3. 
Warm mix asphalt (WMA) is allowed as an alternate asphalt mixture 
provided that all material requirements and specification standards are met 
and as approved by the Town.   
 
Special Drainage Considerations: The design engineer should anticipate 
the future developed condition of the land adjacent to the roadway when 
making the paving design recommendations. Even when no shallow 
groundwater is present in the pre-developed condition it is expected that 
certain land uses such as single-family homes and projects with irrigated 
landscaping present the possibility of water entering the road subgrade and 
adversely affecting the performance and longevity of the pavement. 
Appropriate design features (underdrains) to stop water from infiltrating 
into the pavement section are required. Underdrains are required on the 
downstream side of lot to lot drainage and where substantial open space 
drainage drains to the street.   An additional 1 feet of easement may be 
required adjacent to the public right-of-way to accommodate underdrain 
systems or comparable design features. See the Storm Drainage Design and 
Technical Criteria Manual for further information and requirements on 
underdrain systems.   
 
 
