TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS    -    April 2023 
 
 
Page 3 
 
 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF CRITERIA 
 
In the interpretation and application of the provisions of these Criteria, the following 
shall govern: 
 
 
The provisions shall be regarded as the minimum requirements for the protection of the 
public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Town.  These Criteria shall 
therefore be regarded as remedial and shall be liberally construed to further its 
underlying purposes. 
 
Whenever a provision of these Criteria and any other provision of the Procedures 
Manual or any provision in any law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, 
contains any requirement(s) covering any of the same subject matter, the requirements 
that are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall govern. 
 
These Criteria shall not abrogate or annul any easements, permits, reports or 
construction drawings that are recorded, issued, or accepted by the Town prior to the 
effective date of these Criteria.   
 
 VARIANCES 
1. 
Variances to these criteria shall require a formal variance request. Variances 
from the provisions of these Criteria may be considered on a case-by-case 
basis for specific applications only and shall not establish a precedent for 
any other project or future development. All revisions to these Criteria shall 
be documented on CDs for construction and inspection purposes and on 
Record Drawings for operational purposes. All Variances on a project shall 
be listed on Site Plans (if applicable) and CDs including the Variance 
Number, description of the Variance, and conditions of approval, and the 
approval date. Formal requests for variances from the standards, policies or 
requirements of these Criteria shall be submitted with documentation and 
justification to the Development Services Project Manager. The Variance 
request and supporting documentation will be reviewed by the Public 
Works Department, and the Public Works Director or designee will issue a 
formal response to the request. Submittal requirements for variances and 
information regarding the appeals process shall be as established in the 
Development Procedures Manual.    
 
