TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7 – TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS   -  April 2023 
Page 104 
 
 
2. 
Trip Distribution: 
The trip distribution for the proposed project will be identified in the TIA. 
The distribution pattern will be based upon: 
• The project's location within the Town 
• Standard gravity model 
• Existing traffic volume data 
• Project marketing data 
• Engineering judgment 
 
3. 
 Trip Assignment: 
The project traffic will be assigned to the roadway system according to the 
trip distribution established above. The resulting project site-generated 
traffic will be depicted on figures for build-out conditions and any project 
phases. These figures will include daily and peak hour traffic volume 
information. 
 
  Total Traffic Projections 
The total traffic projections will be determined for existing conditions and for 
each of the Study years identified earlier in the base assumptions. For existing 
conditions, the project-related traffic will be added to the existing three peak 
hours of traffic. The resulting total traffic projections for existing conditions 
will be depicted on a figure showing the project site, and the roadways within 
the study area. For each of the Study years, the total traffic projections will 
include the future background traffic plus the project-generated traffic. 
Background traffic will be developed by an annual growth rule obtained by 
the Town or obtained from the Town’s Transportation Master Plan. The 
future total traffic projections will be depicted on figures for each Study year. 
Based upon the total traffic projections and the Roadway Design Criteria of 
this manual, the TIA shall provide roadway functional classification 
recommendations. For example, a roadway projected to carry between 3,500 
and 5,000 vehicles per day would be recommended as a collector without 
parking, but if the projected traffic was less than 1,000 vehicles per day, it 
could be recommended to be a local street with parking. 
 
