TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3 – ACCESS REQUIREMENTS & CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 63 
 
 
 
Minor Arterials 
1. 
A detailed Traffic Impact Analysis shall be completed for any new proposed 
access point on a minor arterial to ensure adequate levels of service prior to 
issuance of an access permit.   
2. 
Generally, no private direct access onto a minor arterial shall be permitted 
unless a signal progression plan has been approved and it is determined that 
the proposed access will cause no significant impacts to traffic conditions.  
Private direct access to a minor arterial may be permitted only when the 
property in question has no other reasonable access to the general roadway 
network, or when denial of a direct access to a minor arterial will cause 
unacceptable traffic operations and/or safety problems on an alternative 
lower classified roadway.  When direct private access must be provided on a 
minor arterial roadway, the following shall be considered prior to approval 
of the proposed access location: 
 See 3.2.3.2 A, B, & C 
 Location has the potential for signalization or roundabout, if it meets 
spacing requirements for intersecting public roadways stated in 3.1.4.4 
and does not interfere with the location, planning and operations of 
the general roadway network and access to nearby properties.   
 
3. 
Public direct access onto a minor arterial roadway, where left turns are 
permitted, shall meet the signalization spacing criteria in Section 3.1.4.4.  
Those that do not meet these requirements shall be limited to right turn 
only movements, unless they meet the requirements in Section 3.2.3.2.C No 
local streets shall be permitted to intersect with minor arterials.  However, 
in some situations, Entry Streets may be used to transition from a local 
street to a minor arterial. 
 
4. 
Spacing and Signalization 
 Refer to Figure 3.1 for spacing requirements. 
 In general terms, full access onto minor arterials shall be limited to 
one-quarter (1/4) mile intervals, plus or minus approximately 200-feet, 
