TOWN OF CASTLE ROCK TRANSPORTATION DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 –  ROADWAY DESIGN CRITERIA    -    April 2023 
Page 41 
 
 
3. 
Sight distance lines should be contained in the public right-of-way.  In areas 
where sight lines unavoidably cross private property, a sight distance 
easement shall be described and conveyed to the Town.  In cases, where an 
off-site sight distance easement is necessary, the easement must be 
acquired by the developer and conveyed to the Town. 
4. 
On local residential streets, the streets and lots should be designed to avoid 
sight lines crossing residential lots.  Where sight lines on private lots are 
unavoidable, the sight distance line should have minimal impact on the 
residential lot.  Sight lines are not permitted to cross property lines that are 
fenced or have the ability to be fenced. Sight distance lines in the front 
yards of residential lots shall not encroach more than five (5) feet. 
5. 
All sight distance lines must be shown on the site plan, landscape plans and 
construction drawing plan/profile sheets. 
6. 
Sight Distance Line Criteria within the Downtown area shall be reviewed on 
a case-by-case basis with respect to on-street parking and existing 
obstructions.  
 
 
Intersection Safety Triangle 
At every intersection of two (2) or more existing or proposed streets, a safety 
triangle shall be calculated by extending a line twenty-five (25) feet in length 
at the point of the intersection of the edges of the driving surface of the 
corner property from the intersection corner and traversing across the 
property between the two (2) end points of such lines.  Such a safety triangle 
shall be calculated for every corner of every intersection.  Additionally, safety 
triangles shall be calculated at the intersections between all driveways or bike 
paths with streets and alleys utilizing a similar method with fifteen (15) foot 
lengths on the sides.  Within these safety triangles there shall be no solid 
objects between two and one-half (2½) feet and ten (10) feet above street 
elevation.  (Ord. 2001-37 §4, 2001)  
 
 
  Vertical Sight Distance  
The vertical sight distance shall be verified to ensure that the sight 
distance along the major street is sufficient to allow a vehicle to cross or 
turn left, whichever is required.  All vertical sight distance measurements 
must conform to AASHTO “Green Book” criteria. 
