Final Reading 
Page 2 
2026-0765 
ORD2026-01 
Amend Sec. 23-2-160. - Application requirements for site plan review.  
Any person wanting to apply for a Site Plan Review shall arrange for a preapplication 
conference with the Department of Planning Services. The purpose of the application is 
to give the applicant an opportunity to demonstrate, through written and graphic 
information, how the proposal complies with the standards of this Chapter. The following 
supporting documents shall be submitted as a part of the application: 
A. through E. - No change. 
F. Evidence of water in compliance with the requirements of C.R.S. 29-20-301, et seq. 
G. - No change. 
H. A “will serve” letter from the electricity provider serving the area where the property 
is located.  
I. though T. - No change. 
U. A statement explaining that the USE is compatible with the existing or future 
DEVELOPMENT of the surrounding areas as permitted by the existing zoning and 
with the future DEVELOPMENT of the area as projected by the Comprehensive Plan 
or MASTER PLAN of affected municipalities and any Intergovernmental Agreement. 
Such USE shall adhere to the following operation standards, to the extent that they 
are affected by location, layout, and design prior to construction and operation. Once 
operational, the operation shall conform to the standards listed below: 
1. Noise. USES shall be located, designed, and operated in accordance with the 
noise standards as established in Chapter 14, Article IX, of this code. In addition 
to the dB(A) noise limits in Section 14-9-40 of this code, no DATA CENTER shall 
be allowed to exceed a C-scale noise limit of sixty-five decibels (65 dB(C)) as 
measured at any point on the subject property boundary. 
Remainder of Section – No change. 
Division 4 - Uses by Special Review 
Amend Sec. 23-2-240. - Design standards. 
A. An applicant for a Use by Special Review shall demonstrate compliance with the 
following design standards in the application and shall continue to meet these 
standards if approved for DEVELOPMENT. 
1. Water in compliance with the requirements of C.R.S. 29-20-301, et seq. 
