 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.5: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION 
A.  In the construction of phrases and terms used in these regulations, normally recognized rules 
of construction shall be observed unless excluded by expressed provision, or inconsistent 
with the intent of the Board of Health.  
B.  All general terms, phrases and expressions shall be liberally construed in order that the true 
meaning and intent of the Board of Health may be implemented.  
C.  Words in the present tense include the future tense. Words in the singular include the plural, 
and words in the plural include the singular.  
D. Words importing the masculine or feminine gender shall be applied to the opposite gender, 
as appropriate, and to individuals, associations, corporations, partnerships, and to all other 
types of legal entities.  
E.  Titles, captions, historical notes, source notes, and all other explanatory notes are intended as 
aids in reference and shall not be deemed to be part of these regulations. 
F.  References to authority granted to a specific position, appointee, manager, officer, agent, or 
similar person shall be deemed to include that person’s authorized designee. 
G. Public Health has authority to administratively adopt written and unwritten interpretations of 
words and phrases contained in these regulations, except as such words and phrases have 
otherwise been defined by the regulations or otherwise by law. In adopting such 
administrative interpretations, Public Health shall apply reasonable meanings and 
understandings; and shall, to the extent possible, affect the intent of the Board of Health in 
promulgating such regulations. 
H. The Secretary of the Board of Health has authority to correct typographical errors and 
grammatical errors within any of the regulations herein without further action of the Board. 
Any such corrections shall be accompanied by an historical note, source note, or other 
appropriate note explaining the correction. 
SECTION 2.6: COMPUTATION OF TIME 
A.  In the computation of any period of time prescribed or allowed for the transaction of 
business, filing papers, applying for licenses or permits, and all other similar transactions 
involving official business before the Board of Health or Public Health, the time shall be 
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If, however, the last day is a 
Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, it shall be excluded, and therefore, the last day of any 
such prescribed period of time shall be on the following regular business day of Public 
Health. 
B.  A legal holiday includes all holidays declared by the Board of Health. 
SECTION 2.7: DEFINITIONS 
A.  BOARD or BOARD OF HEALTH: The El Paso County Board of Health, unless the context 
requires otherwise. 
B.  COUNTY: El Paso County, unless the context requires otherwise. 
C.  C.R.S.: Colorado Revised Statutes. 
D. PUBLIC HEALTH: El Paso County Public Health, unless the context requires otherwise. 
E.  PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, 
governmental agency, or similar legal entity. 
5/23/2012 
