 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2.1: TITLE 
A.  The regulations contained in these chapters shall constitute and shall be designated in their 
entirety as “The Regulations of the El Paso County Board of Health”, and may be cited as the 
“Public Health Regulations”.  
B.  Reference herein to the “El Paso County Board of Health”, also referred to herein as the 
“Board of Health” or “Board”, shall mean the El Paso County Board of Health as established 
by the El Paso County Board of County Commissioners for the County of El Paso, State of 
Colorado.  
C.  References herein to “El Paso County Public Health”, also referred to herein as the “Public 
Health”, shall mean El Paso County Public Health as established by the El Paso County 
Board of County Commissioners for the County of El Paso, State of Colorado. 
SECTION 2.2: AUTHORITY 
A.  These regulations are promulgated by the El Paso County Board of Health pursuant to its 
authority granted in Section 25-1-508, C.R.S.; and, all other grants of legal authority by the 
Colorado State Legislature and any other governmental bodies authorized to grant powers 
and duties to the Board of Health. 
B.  The El Paso County Board of Health hereby determines that these regulations are necessary, 
and in the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare. 
SECTION 2.3: NUMBERING SYSTEM 
The regulations of the El Paso County Board of Health shall be organized into chapters 
consisting of major subject areas of regulation. Each chapter shall be divided into sections and 
subsections, as appropriate. The Secretary of the Board, or her designee, is authorized to 
renumber chapters, sections and subsections of these regulations as she deems appropriate. 
SECTION 2.4: ACCEPTANCE OF THE REGULATIONS 
A.  These regulations, as presented in printed form, shall be received without further proof in all 
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the State of Colorado as the regulations of 
general and permanent affect of the El Paso County Board of Health. 
B.  The Secretary of the Board, or her designee, is authorized to certify a true copy of the 
Regulations of the Board of Health or any part thereof, to any court or administrative 
tribunal. 
5/23/2012 
