 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
F.  EXECITOVE DIRECTOR: The administrative and executive head of the Public Health 
designated by the Board of Health pursuant to its authority contained in Section 25-1-508, 
C.R.S. 
SECTION 2.8: SEVERABILITY 
It is the intention of the Board of Health that each and every part of these regulations is 
severable. If any term, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of these regulations is 
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid by any court, the unconstitutionality or invalidity shall 
not affect any remaining provisions, as the remaining provisions would have been promulgated 
in these regulations in any event. 
SECTION 2.9: REPEAL OF PRIOR REGULATIONS 
A.  All rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of Health prior to January 21, 2009, are 
hereby repealed, except as provided below. 
B.  All permits, licenses, orders, and other administrative and quasi-judicial actions issued, 
authorized, or otherwise taken by the Board of Health or Public Health pursuant to rules and 
regulations promulgated prior to this date shall remain in full force and effect. The rules and 
regulations upon which such administrative or quasi-judicial action is, or was, taken, shall 
remain effective for the purposes of such action. 
SECTION 2.10: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS 
A.  No person shall be granted, or have renewed, any permit, license, or certificate pursuant to 
the Regulations of the El Paso County Board of Health if said person is in noncompliance 
with any of such regulations, or has failed to pay any applicable fees, or penalties, or 
represents another person in obtaining or renewing any permit, license, or certificate who is 
in noncompliance or has failed to pay applicable fees, or penalties at any location within El 
Paso County. 
B.  Public Health shall use reasonable means to notify the property owner prior to entry upon 
any property of its intent to enter and purpose for entering. Notice shall normally be given in 
person immediately prior to the time of entry by contacting the property owner in person at 
the location of the property. If notice cannot reasonably be given in person, notice may be 
given by telephone, fax, electronic mail, United States mail, or any other reasonable means, 
if feasible. 
C.  If Public Health has a lawful right to enter a property for the purposes of making an 
inspection, and the property owner refuses to grant entry, or withdraws permission to enter or 
 
 
remain on the property, Public Health shall not enter the property, or immediately leave the 
property, and seek an administrative inspection warrant or other lawful means to obtain 
access. 
D. The property owner, or his representative, shall have the right to accompany Public Health 
during any inspection of a property. 
E.  If Public Health obtains any samples from a property, the owner shall be provided a split 
sample, upon request. If a split sample is not practicable, a duplicate sample shall be 
provided, upon request. 
5/23/2012 
