 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M. Following conclusion of all presentations, the Board of Health shall close the public 
hearing and deliberate on its final determination. During its deliberation, the Board of 
Health may request clarification or follow-up material from Public Health, or others 
relating to matters raised during the hearing. The Board of Health may also reopen the 
public hearing, or allow submittal of supplemental material for a set period of time 
following the public hearing, followed by deliberation at a later date to be announced.  
N. The Board of Health shall base its final determination regarding the proposed regulation 
on the administrative record that shall consist of all written and oral statements presented. 
The Board of Health may adopt the regulation as proposed, modify the proposal, reject 
the proposal, postpone action to a later date, or take such other action as it deems 
appropriate.  
O. Regulations adopted by the Board of Health shall become effective immediately upon 
adoption, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Health. 
P.  The Secretary of the Board of Health shall maintain, and make available for public 
inspection and copying all regulations adopted by the Board of Health in paper copy, and 
on the Internet, if feasible. 
The Board of Health may adopt a temporary or emergency regulation without compliance with 
these procedures if the Board of Health determines that immediate adoption of a regulation is 
imperative to comply with a federal or State law, or for the immediate preservation of public 
health, safety or welfare, and compliance with these procedures would be contrary to the public 
interest. In such case, the Board of Health will make a finding as to the basis of its determination 
that a temporary or emergency regulation is imperative. A temporary or emergency regulation 
shall become effective immediately, or as otherwise ordered by the Board of Health. A 
temporary or emergency regulation shall be effective for a period not to exceed three (3) months, 
or for such shorter period of time as ordered by the Board of Health. 
5/23/2012 
 
