 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
F.  Public Health is authorized to record a Certificate of Noncompliance in the Office of the El 
Paso County Clerk and Recorder relating to any real property located in El Paso County, 
Colorado, that has conditions, structures, improvements, facilities, or any operation thereon, 
or for which the owner, tenant, or operator has not paid a fee or civil penalty associated with 
said real property in compliance with any public health law of the State of Colorado, or 
Regulation of the El Paso County Board of Health. 
1.  At least thirty (30) calendar days prior to recording a Certificate of Noncompliance, 
Public Health shall first notify the owner, tenant or operator of said real property of the 
alleged non-compliant condition, structure, improvement, facility, or operation, or the 
failure to pay a fee or civil penalty associated with the use of such real property, and its 
intent to record a Certificate of Noncompliance, by personal service to the owner, tenant 
or operator; or, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of 
any such person; or, by posting a notice on a building, structure, or other prominent place 
on said property, or by personal service of the notice to the property owner. 
2.  Following at least thirty (30) days after mailing or posting such notice, and without 
further investigation or evidence required, Public Health may, but is not required, to 
record a Certificate of Noncompliance with regard to such real property as provided 
herein so long as the property owner, tenant or occupant has not provided competent 
evidence that the non-compliant conditions have been corrected, and all fees, civil 
penalties and costs paid. 
3.  The form for the Certificate of Noncompliance shall be developed by Public Health to 
include the following information, as is known or readily available: Name of the property 
owner, tenant, or operator; common address; legal description; date the notice of 
noncompliance was mailed or posted; date of recording the Certificate of 
Noncompliance; citation of the legal authority relating to the noncompliance; general 
nature of the non-compliant condition, structure, improvement, facility, or operation, or 
failure to pay a fee or civil penalty; name, title, address and telephone number of Public 
Health official filing the Certificate of Noncompliance; general statement of the 
corrective action that is necessary to obtain a release of the Certificate of Noncompliance; 
and, general statement of the process to obtain a release of the Certificate of 
Noncompliance. 
4.  Public Health shall issue a release of the Certificate of Noncompliance to the property 
owner, tenant, or operator upon request as soon as practicable following receipt of 
competent evidence that the non-compliant conditions have been corrected, and 
following payment of all fees and costs, including applicable permit fees, inspection fees, 
penalties, and release processing fees. 
5.  The property owner shall be responsible to file the release with the Office of the El Paso 
County Clerk and Recorder at his expense. 
SECTION 2.11: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
A.  The following procedures shall be followed by the Board of Health for adoption or 
revision of regulations pursuant to its authority contained in Section 25-1-508, C.R.S. 
These procedures shall not apply to general statements of policy, adoption or revision to 
the annual budget of Public Health, ceremonial actions, administrative procedures or 
policies of Public Health, contracts, advisory directions, or any similar actions of the 
Board of Health or Public Health. 
5/23/2012 
