 
 
 
B.  Any member of the Board of Health, Public Health, or any other person may propose 
regulations for adoption by the Board of Health. 
C.  A person proposing a regulation shall submit a draft of such regulation to the legal 
advisor of the Board of Health who shall determine whether the proposed regulation is 
within the authority of the Board of Health to adopt. 
D. If the legal advisor determines that the proposed regulation is not within the authority of 
the Board of Health to adopt, he shall so notify the person proposing the regulation. 
E.  If the legal advisor determines that the proposed regulation is within the authority of the 
Board of Health to adopt, he shall draft an appropriate resolution setting forth the draft 
regulation, along with a proposed public hearing date, time and place, and ordering the 
Secretary of the Board of Health to advertise the public hearing at least once in a 
newspaper of general circulation in El Paso County, Colorado, not less than twenty (20) 
days prior to said public hearing. 
F.  The Board of Health shall consider said resolution for a public hearing on the proposed 
regulation at its first appropriate regular or special meeting. The Board of Health may 
adopt, modify, or reject said resolution for a public hearing on the proposed regulation at 
its sole discretion. 
G. If ordered by the Board of Health by resolution, the Secretary of the Board of Health 
shall thereafter advertise the date, time, place, and general nature of the proposed 
regulation at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in El Paso County, 
Colorado, not less than twenty (20) days prior to said public hearing. Said notice shall 
include a statement that a complete copy of the proposed regulation shall be available for 
public inspection and copying at Public Health offices located at 1675 W. Garden of the 
Gods Road, Suite 2044, Colorado Springs, Colorado. The Secretary of the Board of 
Health may also make the proposed regulation available for public inspection on the 
Internet. 
H. Any person may submit written comments on the proposed regulation to the Board of 
Health at any time prior to or during said public hearing. All written comments shall be 
made available for public inspection and copying as a part of the hearing record, and shall 
be considered by the Board of Health in making its final determination regarding the 
proposed regulation. 
I.  On the date, and at the time and place stated in the notice, the Board of Health shall hold 
a public hearing on the proposed regulation; except, that the Board of Health may cancel 
the public hearing, postpone it indefinitely, continue it to another date, time or place 
which shall be announced, or take other action as it deems appropriate.  
J.  At the public hearing, the Board of Health shall first receive written and/or oral 
statements from the person proposing the regulation. The person proposing the regulation 
may recommend adoption of it as proposed, or may recommend modification, rejection, 
or any other appropriate consideration by the Board of Health. 
K.  Thereafter, the Board of Health shall afford interested persons an opportunity to present 
written and/or oral data, views, and arguments concerning the proposed regulation. 
L.  The Board of Health may impose reasonable rules for the conduct of public hearings such 
as time restrictions, restrictions on duplicitous presentations, and other such rules as it 
deems necessary to provide a full, fair and expeditious hearing. 
5/23/2012 
