===== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 1 OF 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
REGULATIONS OF THE EL PASO  
COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH  
EL PASO COUNTY, COLORADO  
Chapter 1  
Bylaws  
El Paso County Board of Health  
El Paso County Public Health 
5/23/2012 

===== END PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 1 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====

===== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 2 OF 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 1 
BYLAWS 
EL PASO COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH 
SECTION 1.1: ORGANIZATION 
A. Board of Health: El Paso County Public Health (hereafter “Public Health”) shall be 
governed by the Board of Health of El Paso County, hereinafter referred to as the Board. 
The Board shall consist of nine members, as appointed by the Board of County 
Commissioners of El Paso County, Colorado, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. Board members shall serve with no remuneration, except that 
they may be reimbursed for actual expenses when on official Public Health business. 
B. Place of Business: The principal office of the Board shall be located in the El Paso 
County Public Health building located at 1675 W. Garden of the Gods Road, Suite 1044, 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
C. Authority of the Board of Health: 
1. The authority of the Board shall be in accordance with those powers and duties set 
forth in Part 5 of Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. 
2. The Board shall be held responsible for the selection and appointment of an 
experienced Executive Director with knowledge in public health, public administration or 
closely related discipline. The Executive Director shall hold the position at the will and 
pleasure of the Board. 
3. The Board shall have the power and duty of determining, devising and setting general 
policies to guide the Executive Director and Public Health. 
D. Mission: The Board of Health’s mission is to promote and protect public health and 
environmental quality in the community through people, prevention and partnerships, 
subject to availability of funding; and, to work toward providing the 10 essential services 
as outlined by the National Association of Local Boards of Health (NALBOH). 
SECTION 1.2: OFFICERS 
The regular officers of the Board shall be President, Vice President, Secretary, and 
Treasurer. The President and Vice President shall serve a term not to exceed one (1) 
calendar year. The Board shall elect a new President and Vice President, the election of 
which shall occur at the regular meeting of the Board each December, or as otherwise 
determined appropriate by the Board. The duties of the regular officers of the Board shall 
be as follows: 
A. President: The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board, shall take an 
interest in all affairs of Public Health, and shall be an ex-officio member of all 
committees, without vote. The President of the Board shall have the authority to sign 
deeds and other instruments on behalf of Public Health, unless such power is otherwise 
delegated by the Board or by the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
B. Vice President: The Vice President of the Board shall perform the duties of the 
President of the Board in the event of absence, resignation, death, or disability of the 
President. 
5/23/2012 

===== END PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 2 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====

===== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 3 OF 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
C. Secretary: The Secretary of the Board shall be the Executive Director, or assigned 
staff. The Executive Director shall have the authority and responsibility as determined by 
the Board of Health and as set forth in Part 5 of Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. The 
Executive Director and the County Administrator shall consult throughout the budget 
year regarding the coordination of administrative and support services, and concerning 
the integration of support services in order to create operating and cost efficiencies.  
D. Treasurer: The Treasurer of El Paso County shall serve as Treasurer of El Paso County 
Public Health. The Treasurer shall hold all funds of Public Health in an account in a 
depository as authorized by Colorado law and in accordance with the Public Deposit 
Protection Act, Section 11-10.5-10 1, et seq. C.R.S. Said account shall be an “El Paso 
County Public Health” fund, created by the Treasurer as provided by Section 25-1-5 11, 
C.R.S. All withdrawals from such funds shall be allowed only if certified by the President 
or, by any Board member designated by the President, and the Executive Director.  
SECTION 1.3: MEETINGS 
A. Regular Meetings: The Board shall establish a regular meeting schedule each year at a 
place to be designated by the Board. Such schedule may be amended from time to time 
by the Board, as necessary. In order to facilitate digital recording, and Internet and 
television broadcasting, the Board of Health shall normally conduct its regular meetings 
at the Pikes Peak Regional Development Center Hearing Room 2880 International Circle, 
Colorado Springs, CO. All meetings of the Board shall be digitally recorded. If service is 
available, all meetings shall also be broadcast live over the Internet. Furthermore, if 
service is available, the video and audio recording of all meetings shall be rebroadcast 
over a cable television local access channel. Regular meetings for each year shall be as 
determined by the Board of Health. 
B. Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the President, the Executive 
Director, or a majority of the Board at any time on three days prior notice, or in case of 
emergency, 24 hours notice by telephone or other electronic means. 
C. Quorum: A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of business at any meeting, but if no quorum exists, those members in 
attendance may adjourn the meeting to a time certain. 
D. Attendance at Meetings/Removal of Member: Board members are expected to attend 
at least eighty percent (80%) of all regular meetings and special meetings. The reasons 
for any absences shall be communicated in advance, if possible, to the President. If a 
Board member has more than three (3) absences during any calendar year, it shall be the 
duty of the President and Vice President to consult with such member concerning his or 
her continued willingness and ability to serve on the Board. Notwithstanding the 
President and Vice President’s commitment to consult, nothing precludes the Board of 
Health from recommending to the Board of County Commissioners the removal of a 
member who receives more than three (3) absences in any calendar year. Only the Board 
of County Commissioners shall have the authority to remove a member. The authority of 
the Board of Health is limited to making recommendations for removal to the Board of 
County Commissioners. 
5/23/2012 

===== END PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 3 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====

===== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 4 OF 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. Meeting Agenda: A written agenda, to the extent required by law, shall be prepared by 
the Secretary or assistant secretary for each regular and special meeting of the Board, and 
posted at least 24 hours prior to the meeting at the place or places established each year 
by the Board as required by law. The regular meeting agenda shall generally be prepared 
and sent by electronic means to all Board members at least five (5) days prior to each 
regular meeting. The agendas for each regular and special meeting shall consist of items 
requested by the President of the Board or, in the absence of the President, the Vice 
President, the Executive Director, or at least three (3) members of the Board. Board 
members shall submit requests for agenda items to the President or, in the President’s 
absence, the Vice President and the Executive Director. The agenda may be changed by 
the President or by majority vote of the Board members present.  
F. Executive Sessions: The President shall poll Board members, and, upon consent of 
two-thirds (2/3) of the Board members present, may hold a closed executive session. If 
consent for the closed executive session is not given, the item may be discussed in open 
session or withdrawn from consideration. The reasons for going into executive session 
shall only be those allowed for a local public body under Section 24-6-402, C.R.S. 
G. No Administrative Authority: The Board shall act only by motion or resolution at a 
regular or special meeting of the Board. No individual member of the Board shall give 
individual administrative direction to the Executive Director or Public Health staff or in 
any manner exercise individually any administrative authority with respect to Public 
Health. 
H. Policy Statements: No individual member of the Board shall make a statement of 
policy which purports to be that of the Board unless the Board shall have adopted such 
policy, but no Board member shall be prohibited from stating his or her personal 
opinions, provided they are clearly identified as being personal.  
I. Board Responsibilities: It is the responsibility of the Board to understand and carry out 
powers and duties pursuant to Part 5 of Article I of Title 25, C.R.S., relating to public 
health. As such, each Board member must recognize his or her responsibilities as a Board 
member, and the administrative roles and responsibilities of the Executive Director. 
SECTION 1.4: COMMITTEES 
A majority of the Board shall have the power to appoint regular, temporary or ad hoc 
committees as deemed necessary to study matters coming before the Board and to make 
recommendations to the full Board. The Board may appoint itself as a Committee of the 
Whole to hear any matters that may be brought before it. The creation of all such 
committees and appointments thereto shall be done in an open and public meeting. All 
committee meetings shall be held in compliance with the Colorado Open Meetings Law, 
Section 24-6-402, C.R.S. 
SECTION 1.5: ANNUAL AUDIT AND ANNUAL BUDGET 
As soon as practical following approval of an annual audit of Public Health, the Secretary 
shall file in the offices of the El Paso County Board of County Commissioners a report of 
the preceding year’s activities of Public Health, which audit shall include a copy of the 
auditor’s recommendations, if any. On or before September 1 of each year, Public Health 
shall present to the Board of County Commissioners a proposed budget for the next 
Public Health fiscal year in order to provide the Board of County Commissioners with an 
5/23/2012 

===== END PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 4 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====

===== PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 5 OF 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
opportunity to provide any moneys necessary, over estimated moneys from surpluses, 
grants, and donations, to cover the total cost of maintaining Public Health for the ensuing 
fiscal year by an appropriation from the county general fund. 
SECTION 1.6: COUNTY HEALTH PLAN 
As soon as practicable after adoption of the statewide public health improvement plan 
required under Section 25-1-504, C.R.S., Public Health shall commence development of 
a countywide public health improvement plan. The Board shall not adopt such a 
countywide public health improvement plan until it shall have made available to the 
public for review and comment a draft that is materially complete. As soon as the draft of 
a countywide public health improvement plan is available for public review and 
comment, the Board shall present to the Board of County Commissioners a copy of such 
draft in order to provide the Board of County Commissioners with an opportunity for 
review and comment. 
SECTION 1.7: ANNUAL UPDATE 
Once per year, Public Health shall prepare and the Board shall provide a written Annual 
Update to the Board of County Commissioners concerning the previous year’s activities 
of Public Health. 
SECTION 1.8: PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY 
The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised shall 
govern the Board in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not 
inconsistent with the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
SECTION 1.9: AMENDMENT OF BYLAWS 
The Bylaws may be amended at any regular or special meeting of the Board by a majority 
vote of at least five (5) members of the Board. Except in case of an exigent circumstance 
that requires immediate amendment to the Bylaws, any proposed amendments to the 
Bylaws shall be presented to the Board in draft form at a regular meeting at least one 
month prior to final consideration by the Board. 
SECTION 1.10: SEVERABILITY 
To the extent any part of these Bylaws are declared to be unenforceable by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, it shall not make unenforceable the remaining provisions of the 
Bylaws. 
5/23/2012 

===== END PHYSICAL PDF PAGE 5 (PACKAGING MARKER) =====

