 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 1 
BYLAWS 
EL PASO COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH 
SECTION 1.1: ORGANIZATION 
A. Board of Health: El Paso County Public Health (hereafter “Public Health”) shall be 
governed by the Board of Health of El Paso County, hereinafter referred to as the Board. 
The Board shall consist of nine members, as appointed by the Board of County 
Commissioners of El Paso County, Colorado, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. Board members shall serve with no remuneration, except that 
they may be reimbursed for actual expenses when on official Public Health business. 
B. Place of Business: The principal office of the Board shall be located in the El Paso 
County Public Health building located at 1675 W. Garden of the Gods Road, Suite 1044, 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
C. Authority of the Board of Health: 
1. The authority of the Board shall be in accordance with those powers and duties set 
forth in Part 5 of Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. 
2. The Board shall be held responsible for the selection and appointment of an 
experienced Executive Director with knowledge in public health, public administration or 
closely related discipline. The Executive Director shall hold the position at the will and 
pleasure of the Board. 
3. The Board shall have the power and duty of determining, devising and setting general 
policies to guide the Executive Director and Public Health. 
D. Mission: The Board of Health’s mission is to promote and protect public health and 
environmental quality in the community through people, prevention and partnerships, 
subject to availability of funding; and, to work toward providing the 10 essential services 
as outlined by the National Association of Local Boards of Health (NALBOH). 
SECTION 1.2: OFFICERS 
The regular officers of the Board shall be President, Vice President, Secretary, and 
Treasurer. The President and Vice President shall serve a term not to exceed one (1) 
calendar year. The Board shall elect a new President and Vice President, the election of 
which shall occur at the regular meeting of the Board each December, or as otherwise 
determined appropriate by the Board. The duties of the regular officers of the Board shall 
be as follows: 
A. President: The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board, shall take an 
interest in all affairs of Public Health, and shall be an ex-officio member of all 
committees, without vote. The President of the Board shall have the authority to sign 
deeds and other instruments on behalf of Public Health, unless such power is otherwise 
delegated by the Board or by the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
B. Vice President: The Vice President of the Board shall perform the duties of the 
President of the Board in the event of absence, resignation, death, or disability of the 
President. 
5/23/2012 
