 
 
 
 
 
 
C. Secretary: The Secretary of the Board shall be the Executive Director, or assigned 
staff. The Executive Director shall have the authority and responsibility as determined by 
the Board of Health and as set forth in Part 5 of Article 1 of Title 25, C.R.S. The 
Executive Director and the County Administrator shall consult throughout the budget 
year regarding the coordination of administrative and support services, and concerning 
the integration of support services in order to create operating and cost efficiencies.  
D. Treasurer: The Treasurer of El Paso County shall serve as Treasurer of El Paso County 
Public Health. The Treasurer shall hold all funds of Public Health in an account in a 
depository as authorized by Colorado law and in accordance with the Public Deposit 
Protection Act, Section 11-10.5-10 1, et seq. C.R.S. Said account shall be an “El Paso 
County Public Health” fund, created by the Treasurer as provided by Section 25-1-5 11, 
C.R.S. All withdrawals from such funds shall be allowed only if certified by the President 
or, by any Board member designated by the President, and the Executive Director.  
SECTION 1.3: MEETINGS 
A. Regular Meetings: The Board shall establish a regular meeting schedule each year at a 
place to be designated by the Board. Such schedule may be amended from time to time 
by the Board, as necessary. In order to facilitate digital recording, and Internet and 
television broadcasting, the Board of Health shall normally conduct its regular meetings 
at the Pikes Peak Regional Development Center Hearing Room 2880 International Circle, 
Colorado Springs, CO. All meetings of the Board shall be digitally recorded. If service is 
available, all meetings shall also be broadcast live over the Internet. Furthermore, if 
service is available, the video and audio recording of all meetings shall be rebroadcast 
over a cable television local access channel. Regular meetings for each year shall be as 
determined by the Board of Health. 
B. Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the President, the Executive 
Director, or a majority of the Board at any time on three days prior notice, or in case of 
emergency, 24 hours notice by telephone or other electronic means. 
C. Quorum: A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of business at any meeting, but if no quorum exists, those members in 
attendance may adjourn the meeting to a time certain. 
D. Attendance at Meetings/Removal of Member: Board members are expected to attend 
at least eighty percent (80%) of all regular meetings and special meetings. The reasons 
for any absences shall be communicated in advance, if possible, to the President. If a 
Board member has more than three (3) absences during any calendar year, it shall be the 
duty of the President and Vice President to consult with such member concerning his or 
her continued willingness and ability to serve on the Board. Notwithstanding the 
President and Vice President’s commitment to consult, nothing precludes the Board of 
Health from recommending to the Board of County Commissioners the removal of a 
member who receives more than three (3) absences in any calendar year. Only the Board 
of County Commissioners shall have the authority to remove a member. The authority of 
the Board of Health is limited to making recommendations for removal to the Board of 
County Commissioners. 
5/23/2012 
