amended by deleting and replacing with the following:
855-23 Standard for the Installation of Stationary Energy Storage Systems 1201.1
Appendix B
Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings
Section B103.4. Add New Section B103.4 to read as follows:
B103.4 Alternative IVIethods. In areas which are mostly developed where not more than two
buildable lots are created (at the same time) after the effective date hereof, and the existing
water lines and fire flow are inadequate in the area, the Fire Chief may allow a residential
structure to be built if equipped with an approved fire sprinkler system and if he determined that
water upgrades would be impractical. In such event, the Fire Chief shall record a memorandum
indicating the fire protection measure used and the facts concerning the inadequate water lines.
Appendix C
Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution
Section C102.2. Add New Section C102.2 to read as follows:
C102.2 Water supply lines. Hydrants shall be on a looped (receiving water from more
than one direction) water supply line of at least six inches (6") in diameter.
Exceptions:
1. One ortwo-family residential developments may have hydrants supplied by a
dead-end water line where there are 30 or fewer dwelling units. Up to 60 dwelling
units may have hydrants supplied by a dead-end water line when ail units are
protected by an approved residential fire sprinkler system. In any case, the Fire
Chief may require such developments provide for water line connections to
adjacent properties to ensure the overall water distribution system meets
recognized standards.
2. Multiple-family residential developments having up to 100 dwelling units may be
protected by fire hydrants supplied by a dead-end water line. Up to 200 dwelling
units may be protected by fire hydrants supplied by a dead-end water line when all
units are protected by an approved residential fire sprinkler system. In no case
shall such developments be supplied by a dead-end line exceeding 1,000 feet in
length. The Fire Chief may require such developments provide for water line
connections to adjacent properties to ensure the overall water distribution system
meets recognized standards.
3. For commercial and industrial developments, any building not exceeding
three stories or 30 feet in height may be protected by fire hydrants supplied by
a dead-end water line.
4. For commercial and industrial developments, buildings or facilities having a
gross building area up to 62,000 square feet may be protected by fire hydrants
