(e) Tar, asphalt, asphalt shingles, or tar paper;
(f) Railroad ties;
(g) Wood, wood waste, or lumber which has been painted, stained or which has been
treated with preservatives containing arsenic, chromium, pentachlorophenol, or
creosote;
(h) Batteries;
(i) Motor vehicle bodies;
U) Pathogenic wastes;
(k) Asbestos or asbestos containing materials.
Section 307.1.1.3. Open burning as a part of any salvage operation is prohibited.
307.1.2 Location of burning. No person shall burn upon the land of another without
permission of the owner thereof.
307.1.3 Bum restrictions and bum bans. The Fire Chief or his designee is authorized to
issue bum restrictions and/or burn bans as deemed necessary when local conditions make
open burning, bonfires, recreational fires, permanent fire pits or fireplaces, portable outdoor
fireplaces, fireworks, other open flames or similar activities hazardous or objectionable.
Violations of bum restrictions or burn bans shall be punishable in accordance with GJMC
1.04.090.
307.2 Permit required. A permit shall be obtained from the fire code official in accordance
with Section 105.6 prior to kindling a fire for all outdoor burning, opening burning, and
ceremonial bonfires when fires are subject to and in accordance with regulatory, process and
safety provisions stated in the permit issued by the GJFD or its designee in accordance with
the Grand Junction Municipal Code (GJMC) and the most recently adopted version of the
International Fire Code as amended. Recreational fires, portable outdoor fireplaces, fire pits
(non-portable wood burning), and permanent fire pits or fireplaces do not require a permit
but must adhere to all requirements listed in the GJMC and most recently adopted version
of the I FC.
Application of such approval shall only be presented by and permits issued to the owner of
the land on which the fire is to be kindled.
307.2.1 Authorization. Where required by state and local law or regulations, open
burning shall only be permitted with prior approval from state or local air and water quality
management authority, provided that all conditions specified in the authorization are
followed.
307.3 Extinguishment authority. When open burning or other types of burning creates, or
adds to a hazardous situation; or when parameters set forth in this section 307, GJMC 15.44,
and the most recently adopted version of the IFC have not been followed or a required permit
for the open burning or other burning activities has not been obtained, the Fire Code Official is
authorized to order the extinguishment of the open burning or other burning activities.
Extinguishment may be by the permit holder, another competent person or Fire Department
personnel.
