decorative devices such as tiki-torches, lanterns, candles or similar items that are
subjecttoregulatory and safety provisions stated in the most recently adopted IFC.
11. Burning (flaring) of natural gas at the sewer treatment plant and when performed
in conjunction with drilling, completion and workover operations of oil and gas wells
and when flaring operation of wells is reasonably necessary in the opinion of the
well operator to avoid serious hazard to safety.
12. Fire suppression or GJFD training activities.
307.7 Cost Recovery Fee. Any person in violation of this Section 307 for a fire that is
determined to be out of control which requires fire suppression activities by the GJFD
and/or its designee shall pay a cost recovery fee as determined and established by the
City of Grand Junction. The charges shall be the City's actual costs for labor, Equipment
and materials, plus an administrative penalty to be determined by City Council by Resolution.
The City Manager may set a minimum labor, equipment, and material charge. The cost
recovery fee shall be paid within 20 days of the notice of assessment. Any amounts not paid
by the 20th day may result in the imposition of a late fee, a 20 percent charge to defray the
cost of collection, and interest at a rate of eight percent per annum on all unpaid amounts.
Upon failure to pay the full assessment, the matter may be referred to the City Attorney for
collection and the City Manager shall, pursuant to §31- 20-105, C.R.S., certify the same to the
Treasurer of Mesa County to be collected and paid over by the Treasurer of the County in the
same manner as taxes are collected. Any action or other process provided by law may be
maintained by the City Attorney to recover or collect any amounts owing.
Section 308.1.4.1. Add a new Section 308.1.4.1 to read as follows:
308.1.4.1 Egress from buildings. Charcoal burners, open flame cooking devices and LP-
gas cooking devises shall not be used or stored in or near stairwelis, corridors or other areas
that are intended to be used as a means ofegress or considered an interior living space.
Section 308.1.6.3. Amend Section 308.1.6.3 to read as follows:
308.1.6.3 Sky lanterns. A person shall not release or cause to be released a tethered or
untethered sky lantern.
Section 311.1.1. Delete Section 311.1.1 and replace with the following:
311.1.1 Abandoned premises. Buildings, structures and premises for which an owner
cannot be identified or located by dispatch of a certificate of mailing to the last known or
registered address, which persistently or repeatedly become unprotected or unsecured, which
have been occupied by unauthorized persons or for illegal purposes, or which present a
danger of structural collapse or fire spread to adjacent properties shall be considered
abandoned, declared unsafe and abated by demofition or rehabilitation in accordance with the
International Building Code.
Section 311.3. Add a new Section 311.3.1, 311.3.2, 311.3.3 and 311.3.4 to read as
follows:
