15.44.050 New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits.
The Fire Chief and the Fire Marshal shall determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies for
which permits are required in addition to those now enumerated in the International
Fire Code. The Fire Marshal shall post such list in a conspicuous place in the Fire
Marshal's office, and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
15.44.060 Zones in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside
aboveground tanks is permitted.
(a) Section 5704 of the International Fire Code limits the storage offlammable or
combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks. Storage of flammable or
combustible liquids is permitted as follows:
On lands within the City that are zoned in the categories of CG (heavy commercial),
1-1 (light industrial) and 1-2 (heavy industrial). The Fire Chief may permit storage of
flammable or combustible liquids in aboveground tanks on lands within the
jurisdiction which are zoned MU-2 (light commercial) when it can be demonstrated
to the Fire Chief or his designee that such use may be safely undertaken in the
particular location.
(b) -Section 5706.4 of the International Fire Code limits the siting of bulk plants for
flammable or combustible liquids. New bulk plants or terminals for flammable or
combustible liquids are permitted as follows:
On lands within the City that are zoned in the categories of CG (heavy commercial),
1-1 (light industrial) and 1-2 (heavy industrial). The Fire Chief may permit such use in
MU-2 (light commercial) when it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Fire
Chief or his designee that such use may be safely undertaken in the particular
location.
15.44.070 Zones in which storage of liquefied petroleum gases is restricted.
Section 6104 of the International Fire Code restricts the storage ofliquefied
petroleum gas. Liquefied petroleum gas may be stored as follows:
On lands within the City that are zoned in the categories ofCG (heavy commercial),
1-1 (light industrial) and 1-2 (heavy industrial). The Fire Chief may permit such
use in MU-2 (light commercial) when it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Fire Chief or his designee that such use may be safely undertaken in the
particular location.
15.44.080 Zones in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited.
