supplied by a dead-end water line. The gross building area may be increased
to 124,000 square feet without a looped water line when all buildings are
equipped with an approved automatic fire sprinkler system. In no case shall
such developments be supplied by a dead-end line exceeding 1,000 feet in
length. The Fire Chief may require such developments to provide for water line
connections to adjacent properties to ensure the overall water distribution
system meets recognized standards.
5. The Fire Chief may allow a new development that would otherwise be
required to provide a looped water line for required fire hydrants, to have a
dead-end line as long as the development provides a means to connect to a
looped system as future development occurs. The time period and conditions
under which this exception is allowed shall be as determined by the Chief.
6. The Fire Chief may allow fire hydrants to be supplied by other than a looped
water line when the permittee can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Fire
Chief, that a looped system is not practicable. In such event, the Fire Chief
shall make his findings in writing and shall copy such findings to the
Engineering and Transportation Director as well as the Community
Development Director. In such cases, additional fire protection may be required
as determined by the Fire Chief.
C102.3 Fire Hydrant Installation. The distance from the center of the fire hydrant pumper
connection to the finished grade shall not be less than 22 inches. Pumper connections shall
face the access road or as directed by the fire code official.
Appendix D
Fire Apparatus Access Roads
Section D102.1. Amend Section D102.1 to read as follows:
Section D102.1 Required Access. Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings hereafter
constructed shall be accessible to fire department apparatus by way of an approved fire
apparatus access road with asphalt, concrete or other approved drivable surface capable of
supporting the imposed load of fire apparatus weighing up to GVW 80,000 pounds minimum;
H-20 loading. The use of alternative drivable surfaces known as engineered alternative fire
apparatus road systems to include, but not limited to surfaces commonly known as gravel,
payers, grass pave, orgrasscrete require review and approval of the fire code official.
Section D102.2. Add new Section D102.2 to read as follows:
Section D102.2 Private Driveway. A private driveway is defined as a driveway that is 12-foot-
wide minimum and intended for the use of occupants of no more than two single-family dwelling
units, or one two-family dwelling unit. If the most remote area of the dwelling unit's exterior is
located more than 150 feet from an approved fire apparatus access road, then the private
driveway must meet minimum design standards of this code related to fire department access to
include, but not limited to surface, weight support, grade, apparatus turnarounds, etc. as
