311.3.1 Enforcement. In case of failure of any owner or lessee of such building(s) to remove
all accumulations of hazardous materials, abate said building, and secure the premises, in a
manner approved by the Fire Chief, and upon the election by the Fire Chief to remove said
waste or rubbish and/or to secure or remove/install barricading of building(s), the Fire Chief
is authorized to give notice by certified mail addressed to the last known address of the owner
of such building, which shall require the removal of such waste or rubbish, or otherwise require
the securing of said building(s) or removal of the problem causing the public nuisance, within
sixty (60) days of the date of the notice. In the event such work is not done within the sixty
(60) days, the City Manager may then proceed to have the work done as soon as
practicable. The costs of such work shall be collected by the City Manager. The charge
shall be the actual costs for labor, equipment, and materials plus ten (10) percent for
administration, supervision and inspection. The Fire Chief may cause any building to be
barricaded or secured immediately after a fire has been extinguished. Any and all
barricading or securing shall be at the owner's expense.
311.3.2 Notice. The City Manager, as soon as may be practicable after such charge is
made, shall send by mail, addressed to the last known address of the owner of such
property, a notice of such assessment. The notice shall contain a description of the lots
or parcels of land, the name of the owner or owners, and the amount of the assessment,
together with a brief description of said assessment.
311.3.3 Assessment. It shall be the duty of the owner to pay such assessment within
twenty (20) days after the mailing of such notice, and in case of his failure to do so, he
shall be liable personally for the amount of the assessment and the same shall be a lien
upon the respective lots or parcels of land from the time of such assessment. In case the
owner shall fail to pay such assessment within twenty (20) days after notice has been
mailed to him, as provided by this chapter, then it shall be the duty of the City Manager
to certify the amount of the assessment to the County Treasurer or other officer of the
County having custody of the tax list, for the current year, to be collected in the same
manner as other taxes are collected, with ten (10) percent penalty thereon to defray the
cost of collection. All the laws of the State of Colorado for the assessment and collection of
general taxes, including the laws for the sale of property for taxes and the redemption
thereof, shall apply to and have full effect for the collection of all such assessments.
311.3.4 IVIunicipal Code Provisions. The fact that assessments have been made
against property as provided in this chapter for removal of waste and rubbish, abatement
and/or barricading or securing of said building(s) shall not prevent the owner, agent or
lessee from being punished by fine or imprisonment under the provisions of GJMC
1.04.090, but such fine or penalty may be imposed on those found guilty of violating any
provision hereof in all cases, whether an assessment has or has not been made in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
Section 311.5. Amend Section 311.5 to read as follows:
Section 311.5 Placards. The fire code official is authorized, when executive permission
from the Fire Chief is granted, to require placarding in accordance with Sections 311 .5.1
through 311.5.5 when any vacant or abandoned buildings or structures are determined
to be unsafe pursuant to Section 111 of this code relating to structural or interior hazards.
