Executive Order B 2026 002 
September 4, 2026 
Page 1 of 3 
B 2026 002 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Amending Executive Order B 2026 001 Creating the Competency Task Force 
Pursuant to the authority vested in the Governor of the State of Colorado and, in 
particular, pursuant to Article IV, Section 2 of the Colorado Constitution, I, Jared Polis, 
Governor of the State of Colorado, hereby issue this Executive Order amending Executive Order 
B 2026 001 creating the Competency Task Force (Task Force). 
Background and Purpose 
 We must improve our competency system as a whole by ensuring it is used 
appropriately. I recently signed Senate Bill 26-149, which focused on public safety and those 
individuals found permanently incompetent to proceed to trial. This legislation, however, also 
highlighted the need to address a broader population of pretrial detainees—some of whom are 
low-level or non-violent offenders—who have not yet been found permanently incompetent to 
proceed and may be competent, restored to competency, or become part of the permanently 
incompetent population.   
Completing competency evaluations and restoration treatment within reasonable time 
frames results in faster criminal adjudications, enhancing public safety. In addition, this part of 
the competency system is interconnected with the state resources and services available to 
address individuals who are permanently incompetent and a danger to the community. Moving 
individuals more quickly through the criminal justice system will therefore enhance public safety 
while protecting detainees’ legal rights, particularly with the new pathways provided by Senate 
Bill 26-149. 
In recent years, the Colorado Department of Human Services (CDHS), in partnership 
with the General Assembly, has endeavored to provide evaluation and restoration in a timely 
way. However, at the same time the State has dedicated more resources and passed legislation to 
address these requirements, court orders requiring competency evaluation and restoration have 
doubled from 2019 to 2025. State resources cannot keep apace with this growing demand 
without more significant legislative change. There are numerous options for this legislative 
change and our State is not unique in facing this issue. Other states facing similar challenges, 
such as California and Washington, have recently passed or are considering passing legislation 
that implements a growth cap model, giving each judicial district a defined quota of forensic bed-
days for inpatient competency services. 
