Executive Order B 2026 002 
September 8, 2026 
Page 2 of 3 
A task force composed of experts and interested parties is best positioned to study these 
opportunities and current barriers to addressing this increased strain on our funding and facilities. 
Such a task force will build on the work of Colorado’s Behavioral Health Task Force, 
particularly the Long Term Competency subcommittee, and the Behavioral Health 
Transformational Task Force. These prior Colorado task forces addressed the behavioral health 
system as a whole and did not focus on competency evaluation and restoration, as well as the 
diversion of low-level and non-violent offenders. 
 The State needs creative solutions to protect public safety and detainees’ constitutional 
rights while working within available resources. As a result, Executive Order B 2026 001 formed 
the Competency Task Force, which brings together members of the executive, legislative, and 
judicial branches, criminal justice experts, and victim and disability advocates to find these 
innovative strategies. 
Members of the Task Force have requested additional voting members to reflect the 
breadth of representation contemplated by Executive Order B 2026 001. This Executive Order 
authorizes two additional voting members to the Task Force and requires their appointment by 
September 10, 2026.  
In addition, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe and Ute Mountain Ute Tribe have valuable 
insight to provide regarding the competency system’s effect on them and their members. 
Therefore, this Executive Order requires CDHS to consult with them to obtain their feedback and 
incorporate it into the work of the Task Force. 
Amendment 
Section III.A of Executive Order B 2026 001 is amended to read as follows: 
The Task Force shall have up to seventeen (17) members. The Executive Director 
of the Colorado Department of Human Services (CDHS) or their designee shall 
chair the Task Force. 
Section IV.B of Executive Order B 2026 001 is amended to read as follows: 
The Governor shall complete the appointments to the Task Force by September 
10, 2026. 
Executive Order B 2026 001 is amended to add a new Section V (with subsequent 
renumbering of Sections) as follows: 
