 
 
coprrr.colorado.gov - 1560 Broadway, Ste. 1550, Denver, CO 80202 - (303) 894-7855 
 
Colorado Podiatry Board 
 
Background 
 
What is regulated? 
 
A podiatrist is a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) 
who specializes in treatments related to the foot 
and ankle, and other structures of the leg to treat 
a variety of conditions, including but not limited to 
arch problems, arthritis, calluses, heel spurs, and 
ingrown toenails. Podiatrists predominantly work in 
private office settings, but may also work in 
government offices or hospitals, and they may work 
closely with physicians or other specialists. 
 
Why is it regulated? 
 
Podiatry is a highly skilled profession, and 
podiatrists hold a position of trust with the patients 
that they work with. Treatments administered, if 
performed improperly, can cause significant 
damage to a patient’s foot, ankle, or other leg 
structures. 
 
Who is regulated? 
 
At the end of fiscal year 23-24, there were 288 total 
active licenses administered by the Colorado 
Podiatry Board (Podiatry Board), which is housed in 
the Division of Professions and Occupations. 
 
How is it regulated? 
 
The Podiatry Board oversees the licensure and 
regulation of Podiatrists in Colorado as specified in 
the Podiatry Practice Act (Act). The Podiatry Board 
is tasked with the issuance of podiatry licenses and 
is required by statute to establish an application 
process for examination, initial licensure, and 
license renewal. 
 
 
 
 
What does it cost? 
 
In fiscal year 23-24, expenditures associated with 
the Act amounted to $81,953 and 0.55 full-time 
equivalent employees were allocated to the 
program. 
 
What disciplinary activity is there? 
 
During the sunset review period of fiscal years 19-
20 through 23-24, 104 complaints were filed and 6 
disciplinary actions were taken against licensees. 
 
 
 
 
Key Recommendations 
 
• Sunset the Podiatry Board, place 
the Podiatry Practice Act under 
the regulatory authority of the 
Colorado Medical Board and add 
three podiatrists to the Colorado 
Medical Board.  
 
• Require podiatrists to develop  
plans addressing the  
confidentiality of patient records, 
utilizing language similar to that 
of the Medical Practice Act. 
 
