 
 
7 | P a g e 
Admission into podiatric medical programs requires the completion of at least three 
years of undergraduate education, typically in the areas of healthcare, biology, or 
physical science.6 
 
Applicants to DPM schools typically submit their Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) 
examination scores, along with letters of recommendation. 7 Once admitted to an 
accredited program, candidates must complete four years of training through the 
completion of a DPM degree plus three years of additional hospital residency training. 
Podiatrists may also continue with the completion of fellowship training following the 
completion of their residency.8  
 
Coursework required for completion of a DPM degree is similar to that of other medical 
degrees, and typically includes coursework such as anatomy, physiology, pathology, and 
pharmacology.9 
 
Additionally, podiatrists have the ability to receive additional board certification 
through a combination of examination, clinical experience, and advanced training.10 
Board certification is offered through the American Board of Foot and Ankle Surgery, 
the American Board of Podiatric Medicine, and the American Board of Multiple 
Specialties in Podiatry.  
 
All states require podiatrists to be licensed in order to practice, and applicants must 
also demonstrate the passage of the American Podiatric Medical Licensing Exam 
(APMLE) as a condition of licensure, in addition to any other state-level requirements.11 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
restricts competition. One way this may be accomplished is to review the projected 
salary and growth of the profession.  
 
There are approximately 9,700 practicing podiatrists in the U.S.12 whose annual median 
wage was $152,800 as of May 2024.13   
 
 
6 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: How to Become a Podiatrist. Retrieved July 3, 2025, 
from www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-4 
7 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: How to Become a Podiatrist. Retrieved July 3, 2025, 
from www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-4 
8 American Podiatric Medical Society. Patients And The Public: What is a Podiatrist? Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
www.apma.org/patients-and-the-public/what-is-a-podiatrist/ 
9 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: How to Become a Podiatrist. Retrieved July 3, 2025, 
from www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-4 
10 American Podiatric Medical Society. Patients And The Public: What is a Podiatrist? Retrieved July 3, 2025, from 
www.apma.org/patients-and-the-public/what-is-a-podiatrist/ 
11 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: How to Become a Podiatrist. Retrieved on July 3, 
2025, from www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-4  
12 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Work Environment. Retrieved August 27, 2025, from 
www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-3 
13 Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational Outlook Handbook: Pay. Retrieved August 27, 2005, from 
www.bls.gov/ooh/healthcare/podiatrists.htm#tab-5 
