 
 
8 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
In 1915, regulation of podiatry began in Colorado under what is now referred to as the 
Colorado Medical Board (Medical Board). In 1943, the Medical Board established a 
podiatry advisory board in order to advise the Medical Board on issues related to 
podiatry.  
 
Then, in 1985, the podiatry advisory board became an independent, autonomous board, 
now referred to as the Colorado Podiatry Board (Podiatry Board).  
 
As of 2001, applicants for licensure have also been required to complete a residency 
program which includes, but is not limited to, at least one year of work in a hospital, 
and completion of an educational program approved by the Podiatry Board.  
 
In 2009, a sunset review was completed which made additional changes to the statutes 
that govern the Podiatry Board and the licensees that it regulates.  Recommended 
changes to the Practice Act included: 
 
 Amendment of the definition of podiatry to clarify that podiatrists may treat 
the soft tissues below the mid-calf, and  
 Increases to the level of minimum professional liability insurance required for 
podiatrists who perform surgery. 
 
The 2018 sunset report contained a variety of recommendations, including: 
 
• Clarification that the passage of an approved examination approved by the 
Podiatry Board is a requirement of licensure, and 
• Amendment of the Practice Act to indicate that failure to act within the 
limitations created by a health condition is grounds for discipline. 
