 
 
9 | P a g e 
During the 2019 legislative session, the General Assembly recodified Title 12, C.R.S. At 
that time, Article 32 was repealed and reenacted as Article 290. Though there were 
changes in the manner in which the law reads and many provisions of law were 
combined with common elements of other laws, none of those changes affected the 
implementation or enforcement of the Practice Act. 
 
 
Legal Summary 
 
The third, fourth, fifth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the existing statutes and regulations establish the least 
restrictive form of governmental oversight consistent with the public 
interest, considering other available regulatory mechanisms;  
 
Whether agency rules enhance the public interest and are within the scope 
of legislative intent;  
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
A summary of the current statutes and rules is necessary to understand whether 
regulation is set at the appropriate level and whether the current laws are impeding or 
enhancing the agency’s ability to operate in the public interest. 
 
The laws that govern the regulation of podiatry are housed in Article 290 of Title 12, 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) (Practice Act). The Colorado Podiatry Board 
(Podiatry Board) is vested with the authority to regulate the practice of podiatry. 
 
As specified in the Practice Act, the Podiatry Board oversees the regulation and 
licensure of podiatrists in Colorado. The Podiatry Board is tasked with the issuance of 
initial podiatry licenses and is required by statute to establish an application process 
for examination, initial licensure, and license renewal.14 
 
A podiatrist, including anyone who is training in a residency program, must be licensed 
by the Podiatry Board in order to practice in Colorado.15  
 
 
14 § 12-290-106(1)(b), C.R.S. 
15 § 12-290-102(2), C.R.S. 
