 
 
13 | P a g e 
Program Description and Administration 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The fifth, sixth and seventh sunset criteria question: 
 
Whether the agency operates in the public interest and whether its 
operation is impeded or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, procedures, 
and practices and any other circumstances, including budgetary, 
resource, and personnel matters; 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency's board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency's board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest and whether the agency encourages public 
participation in its decisions rather than participation only by the people 
it regulates. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the agency according to 
these criteria. 
 
The laws that govern the regulation of podiatry are housed in Article 290 of Title 12, 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) (Practice Act). The Colorado Podiatry Board 
(Podiatry Board) is vested with the authority to regulate the practice of podiatry, and 
it is housed in the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies’ Division of Professions 
and Occupations (Division). 
 
As specified in the Practice Act, the Podiatry Board oversees the regulation and 
licensure of podiatrists in Colorado. The Podiatry Board is tasked with the issuance of 
initial podiatry licenses and is required by statute to establish an application process 
for examination, initial licensure, and license renewal.35 
 
The Podiatry Board consists of five members appointed by the Governor to four-year 
terms, including four podiatrists and one member of the public who is not a licensed 
health-care professional and who is not employed by nor benefits financially from the 
health-care industry.36 Meetings are currently held remotely on a quarterly basis. 
 
Table 2 highlights the total program expenditures and the number of full-time 
equivalent (FTE) employees dedicated to the program for fiscal year 19-20 through 
fiscal year 23-24. 
 
 
35 § 12-290-106(1)(b), C.R.S. 
36 § 12-290-105(1), C.R.S. 
