 
 
15 | P a g e 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria. 
 
In order to obtain an initial license in podiatry, an applicant must demonstrate the 
completion of specific requirements, including:37 
 
• Graduation from a podiatry school approved by the Podiatry Board, 
• Passage of the basic sciences examination administered by the National Board of 
Medical Examiners, 
• Passage of the written Podiatric Medical Licensing Examination for States 
(PMLEXIS) of the National Board of Medical Examiners or any successor 
organization with scores determined by the Podiatry Board, and 
• Completion of a one-year residency. 
 
Additionally, an applicant must demonstrate competency by providing evidence that, 
during the two years preceding the application, the applicant was engaged in one of 
the following:38 
 
• Was enrolled in podiatric medical school or in a residency program, 
• Passed the national examination,  
• Was engaged in the active practice of podiatry, or 
• Can otherwise demonstrate competency as required by the Podiatry Board. 
 
In lieu of applying for an initial license, applicants that are licensed to practice podiatry 
in another jurisdiction may apply for a license by endorsement. In order to obtain a 
license by endorsement, an applicant must satisfy certain requirements including, but 
not limited to:39 
 
• Graduation from a podiatry school approved by the Podiatry Board; 
• Passage of the written Podiatric Medical Licensing Examination for States 
(PMLEXIS) examination of the National Board of Podiatric Medical Examiners or 
any successor organization with scores determined by the Podiatry Board, except 
that the Board may waive the examination requirement in instances where the 
applicant has demonstrated satisfactory experience, training, and/or education 
to demonstrate substantial equivalence; 
• Demonstration of passage during the time of licensure in another jurisdiction of 
the basic sciences examination of the National Board of Podiatric Medical 
Examiners or successor organization (if testing occurred after 1970); and 
• Demonstration of compliance with training requirements in another jurisdiction 
that are comparable to those required by the Podiatry Board. 
 
Licensure also requires the payment of fees, which cover the costs of the program. 
Table 3 highlights initial and renewal license fees during fiscal years 19-20 through 23-
24. 
 
 
37 3 CCR § 712-1-1.6-A, Colorado Podiatry Board. 
38 § 12-290-107(1)(d), C.R.S. 
39 3 CCR § 712-1-1.6-B, Colorado Podiatry Board. 
