 
 
20 | P a g e 
The APMLE consists of four separate components: Part I (General Science), Part II 
(Written), Part II (Clinical Skills Patient Encounter), and Part III (Examination).  Each 
part examines specific skills, including:42 
 
• Part I – Tests the candidate’s basic understanding of science concepts including 
general anatomy, lower extremity anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, 
pathology, microbiology and immunology, and pharmacology; 
• Part II (Written) – Tests the candidate’s knowledge of a variety of clinical areas 
of medicine, including, but not limited to orthopedics, radiology, research, and 
jurisprudence in a written format; 
• Part II (Clinical Skills Encounter) – Tests the candidate’s proficiency in a variety 
of clinical tasks needed in order to enter residency, including a podiatric and 
general physical examination of a patient; and 
• Part III - Tests that the candidate’s skills are safe for unsupervised practice by 
sampling clinical skills regarding evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of 
patients. 
 
The fee for each examination component is $925.43 
 
Examinations are not tracked or administered by the Podiatry Board or the Division, 
and all relevant examinations are administered by the Federation of Podiatric Medical 
Boards. 
 
 
Complaints 
 
The eighth and tenth sunset criteria require COPRRR to examine whether complaint, 
investigation and disciplinary procedures adequately protect the public and whether 
final dispositions of complaints are in the public interest or self-serving to the 
profession or regulated entity. 
 
In part, COPRRR utilizes this section of the report to evaluate the program according to 
these criteria.  
 
The Podiatry Board reviews complaints and takes disciplinary actions resulting from 
violations of the Practice Act. Table 9 details the total number of alleged violation 
types received for all license types from complaints for fiscal years 19-20 through 23-
24. 
 
 
 
 
 
42 American Podiatric Medical Licensing Examination. About the Exam. Retrieved August 28, 2025, from 
www.apmle.com/about-the-exam/ 
43 American Podiatric Medical Licensing Examination. Exam Costs. Retrieved August 28, 2025, from 
www.apmle.com/about-the-exam/exam-cost/ 
