 
 
24 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
 
Recommendation 1 — Sunset the Colorado Podiatry Board, place the Podiatry 
Practice Act under the regulatory authority of the Colorado Medical Board 
and add three podiatrists to the Colorado Medical Board. 
 
The Colorado Podiatry Board (Podiatry Board) and the Colorado Medical Board (Medical 
Board) both oversee health-care professions that work to address patient care which 
may include addressing illness, injury, and preventative measures, through assessment 
and/or treatment.  Additionally, all of the professions regulated by both boards require 
very specific training and education in order to ensure that they meet basic 
competencies, and all have very distinct scopes of practice and varying licensure 
requirements. 
 
Since the professions overseen by both boards are regulated in a similar manner, the 
consolidation of the regulation of podiatry under the Medical Board would likely create 
additional efficiencies, including a reduction in staff allocations and the financial 
resources needed to operate two separate boards.  Further, the number of cases before 
the Podiatry Board is significantly smaller than that of the Medical Board and could be 
incorporated into the Medical Board agenda without creating too much additional strain 
on the work performed overall. 
 
Similarly to all other professions regulated by the Medical Board, podiatry should remain 
its own independent license type, with its own independent licensing requirements. 
However, relocating the Podiatry Practice Act (Practice Act) to Article 240 of Title 12, 
Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.), and placing regulatory authority of the Practice Act 
under the Medical Board would streamline processes under the regulatory authority of 
one board, rather than two. Additionally, this type of structural alignment already 
occurs in 13 other states. 
 
The Medical Board currently consists of 17 total members and is structured into three 
separate sub-panels that each complete specific tasks. These consist of two inquiry 
panels (which each complete tasks including the review of complaints, investigations, 
and conducting hearings) and one licensing panel (which completes tasks including 
reviewing license applications and addressing instances of unauthorized practice). 
 
The Podiatry Board currently consists of four podiatry members and one member of the 
public. Stakeholders have expressed concern regarding the potential of losing the 
