 
 
25 | P a g e 
expertise of podiatrists on the Medical Board if consolidated, since the educational and 
licensure requirements for podiatrists are unique as an area of specialization.  
 
If one podiatrist were placed on each inquiry panel and one podiatrist were placed on 
the licensing panel (for a total of three podiatrists seated on the Medical Board), then 
the Medical Board would only contain one less podiatrist than the current Podiatry 
Board structure, with representation on each panel in the event of recusal on either 
inquiry panel, and the unique licensing requirements of a podiatrist would also be 
represented on the licensing panel. This change would help to ensure effective 
representation on the Medical Board is maintained for the practice of podiatry. 
 
The second, sixth, and seventh sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight; 
 
Whether an analysis of agency operations indicates that the agency or the 
agency’s board or commission performs its statutory duties efficiently and 
effectively; and 
 
Whether the composition of the agency’s board or commission adequately 
represents the public interest… 
 
 
Placing the regulatory authority of the Practice Act and the licensees that it regulates 
under the Medical Board will consolidate similar license types under one regulatory 
entity, thereby streamlining processes and reducing associated costs.  
 
Further, the addition of three podiatrists to the Medical Board will help to ensure that 
representation of this unique profession is maintained within the regulatory authority 
overseeing the podiatric regulatory requirements. This consolidation could lead to a 
decrease in fees for podiatrists, since they would no longer need to support the costs 
associated with a separate board and supporting program staff. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should sunset the Podiatry Board, place the Practice 
Act under the regulatory authority of the Medical Board, and add three podiatrists to 
the Medical Board. 
 
It is worth noting that concurrently with this sunset review, the Division of Professions 
and Occupations also underwent a sunset review.  Recommendations in the sunset 
report of the Division will likely impact the Act, as those recommendations will have 
Division-wide impact.  Such recommendations were made in the sunset report of the 
Division, as opposed to individual programmatic reports, to ensure consistency and 
cohesion in policy implementation across the Division. 
 
