 
 
26 | P a g e 
Recommendation 2 - Require podiatrists to develop plans addressing the 
confidentiality of patient records, utilizing language similar to that of the 
Medical Practice Act. 
 
Both on a federal and state level, maintaining confidentiality of patient records has 
been demonstrated to be crucial to privacy protection. For example, the Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 established a variety of 
protections and standards for the protection of health-related patient information. 
Additionally, various acts within the Colorado Revised Statutes, including those that 
provide the regulatory requirements of healthcare professionals licensed under the 
Medical Board, contain provisions for the protection of sensitive patient information.  
 
Section 12-240-142, C.R.S., within the Medical Practice Act states, 
 
Each licensed physician and physician assistant shall develop a written 
plan to ensure the security of patient medical records. 
 
This statutory section also articulates what each written plan must contain, including, 
but not limited to, storage, proper disposal, and method by which patients may have 
access to their medical records. 
 
However, the Practice Act does not contain any similar provision. Patients who receive 
care from licensees under the Practice Act should be afforded the same patient 
protections as those who seek the care of a physician, since documents containing 
sensitive medical history may be collected in order to facilitate treatment by a 
podiatrist as well. 
 
The second and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less, or the same degree of governmental oversight; and 
 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
Protections regarding patient privacy are well established in Colorado law, and 
establishing provisions in the Practice Act that require licensees to develop processes 
to protect patient records in a manner that is consistent with the Medical Practice Act 
would lead to greater consistency in the safeguards established. Therefore, the General 
Assembly should require podiatrists to develop plans addressing the confidentiality of 
patient records, utilizing language similar to that of the Medical Practice Act. 
 
 
 
