 
7 | P a g e 
Profile of Combative Sports 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), C.R.S. The 
first criterion asks whether regulation or program administration by the agency is 
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
To understand the need for regulation, it is first necessary to recognize what combative 
sports are, who they involve and how they are run. 
 
The world of combative sports is vast and evolving, with roots in many cultures 
throughout the world.  In ancient times, various modalities of combative sports served 
practical purposes as forms of military training, as well as entertainment and displays 
of strength. 
 
In general, all forms of combative sports consist of physical activities involving offensive 
and defensive techniques between two opponents.  They include a variety of disciplines 
or modalities, including boxing, judo, karate, taekwondo and many others.  Each has 
its own rules, techniques and philosophies.  Regardless, they share an emphasis on 
discipline, respect for one’s opponent and the pursuit of personal growth.2 
 
This sunset report focuses on those combative sports that are regulated under the 
Colorado Professional Boxing Safety Act (State Act).  These include: 
 
• Boxing – A modality in which participants wear padded gloves and that focuses 
on punching one’s opponent. 
• Kickboxing and Muay Thai – Modalities involving punching, kicking, kneeing and 
elbowing one’s opponent. 
• Mixed Marital Arts and Martial Arts – Modalities that utilize a combination of 
techniques derived from boxing, kickboxing and other martial arts. 
• Bareknuckle Fighting – A modality that is similar to boxing except that 
participants do not wear gloves, though they typically wrap their hands for 
protection. 
 
In all modalities, points are awarded for various strikes and may end in a knockout. 
 
An event typically consists of multiple bouts or matches, which may involve multiple 
modalities.  A bout consists of multiple rounds.  Depending on the modality of the bout 
and whether it is a professional or elimination bout, it may consist of three or five 
rounds, each of which lasts two or three minutes, with a one-minute break between 
rounds. 
 
 
2 Teachy.  Summary of Combat Sports.  Retrieved June 17, 2025, from www.teachy.app/en/summaries/high-
school/12-grade/physical-education-en/combat-sports-or-traditional-summary-8a4a9  
