 
8 | P a g e 
Bouts may be conducted on either a professional basis, in which a purse is awarded, or 
as an “elimination” bout, in which no purse is awarded.  The results of all Colorado-
regulated events are reported to various national organizations where participant 
records are tracked. 
 
Colorado-regulated events are conducted under the supervision of the Colorado Office 
of Combative Sports (Office) and the Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
(Commission), located in the Department of Regulatory Agencies’ (DORA’s) Division of 
Professions and Occupations (Division). 
 
Pursuant to the State Act, the Office licenses: 
 
• Participants, 
• Officials, 
• Corner People, and 
• Promoters. 
 
Participants are the fighters in the various combative sporting events, and they are 
assisted during the event by Corner People.  A Corner Person may provide the 
Participant with a stool upon which to sit between rounds, water to drink, a towel, a 
spit bucket or any combination thereof. 
 
Officials represent the Office and Commission at the event and work to ensure the 
event runs according to the terms of the State Act and the rules promulgated 
thereunder.  They include: 
 
• A referee, who is in the ring with the Participants; 
• Judges, usually three, who sit ringside and keep score; 
• A timekeeper, who rings the bell to begin and end a round and monitors the time 
of each round and the break between rounds; 
• Inspectors, who typically monitor the Participant dressing rooms to ensure that 
proper equipment (such as gloves, pads and hand wraps) is utilized; and 
• A Chief Inspector, who is responsible for the entire event. 
 
Promoters are typically business enterprises that organize the event by securing the 
venue, arranging the bouts, arranging for security and emergency medical personnel 
and ensuring that everyone is appropriately compensated. 
 
In addition, a physician licensed by the Colorado Medical Board must be present at each 
event to conduct pre- and post-bout physical examinations and to render medical care 
to Participants as necessary. 
 
The ninth sunset criterion questions the economic impact of the program and, if 
national economic information is not available, whether the agency stimulates or 
