 
10 | P a g e 
Legal Framework 
 
History of Regulation 
 
In a sunset review, the Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform 
(COPRRR) is guided by the sunset criteria located in section 24-34-104(6)(b), Colorado 
Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). The first and second sunset criteria question:  
 
Whether regulation or program administration by the agency is necessary 
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and  
 
Whether the conditions that led to the initial creation of the program have 
changed and whether other conditions have arisen that would warrant 
more, less or the same degree of governmental oversight. 
 
One way that COPRRR addresses this is by examining why the program was established 
and how it has evolved over time. 
 
Regulation of boxing began in 1927, when the Colorado General Assembly created a 
three-member State Boxing Commission, which had jurisdiction over all professional 
and amateur matches.  In 1947, the General Assembly renamed the State Boxing 
Commission the Colorado State Athletic Commission, which continued to regulate the 
sport until the General Assembly discontinued regulation following a 1977 sunset 
review. 
 
The Colorado Office of Policy, Research and Regulatory Reform (COPRRR) conducted 
sunrise reviews exploring whether to regulate boxing in 1988 and 1991.  Each of these 
recommended against regulation, finding that it was not necessary to protect the 
public. 
 
In 1996, the U.S. Congress passed the Professional Boxing Safety Act (Federal Act), 
which established a basic regulatory framework and safety measures for the sport.  The 
Federal Act also stipulated that any state failing to create a boxing commission by July 
1, 1997, would be compelled to have a boxing commission from another state oversee 
boxing events occurring within its borders.  Accordingly, following the passage of the 
Federal Act, the Colorado Boxing Alliance—a boxing industry group affiliated with the 
national Association of Boxing Commissions—coordinated the oversight of boxing events 
in Colorado by bringing teams of out-of-state regulators to Colorado. 
 
COPRRR conducted another sunrise review of boxing in 1998.  While that review 
concluded that regulation was not necessary to protect the public, it recognized the 
awkward situation created by the Federal Act and recognized the need to protect the 
sport’s participants. 
 
