 
11 | P a g e 
In 2000, the Colorado General Assembly determined that it was in Colorado’s best 
interest to create its own entity to oversee boxing and kickboxing and passed House Bill 
1183, known as the Colorado Professional Boxing Safety Act (State Act). The State Act 
created the Colorado Office of Boxing (Office), headed by an Office Director (Office 
Director), and reconstituted the State Boxing Commission (Commission) as a seven-
member advisory board.  Both the Office and Commission were housed in the 
Department of Regulatory Agencies’ Division of Professions and Occupations (Division).  
The State Act directed the Commission to promulgate rules addressing licensing 
requirements for boxers, promoters, judges, and referees; insurance and bonding 
requirements; guidelines for participant compensation, contracts, and financial 
arrangements; and other areas.  
 
In 2002, the General Assembly passed House Bill 1078, which established grounds for 
discipline and disciplinary procedures for people licensed under the State Act and 
directed the Commission to promulgate rules establishing licensing requirements for 
boxing inspectors and seconds.  
 
In 2004, the General Assembly passed Senate Bill 24, which standardized statutory 
language among the regulatory programs within the Division.  Among other changes, 
this bill authorized the issuance of letters of admonition and further defined disciplinary 
and license renewal procedures.  
 
 
The General Assembly authorized the issuance of cease and desist orders and 
confidential letters of concern in 2006, when it passed House Bill 1264. 
 
In 2009, the Commission underwent a sunset review; subsequently, the General 
Assembly passed House Bill 10-1245.  Notable changes in the bill included adding to the 
State Act specific language addressing mixed martial arts and clarifying that anyone 
wishing to participate in, judge, referee, promote, or second a boxing match must be 
licensed under the State Act. 
 
COPRRR conducted another sunset review in 2016, resulting in Senate Bill 17-148 
(Senate Bill 148).  This bill, among other things, implemented recommendations to 
continue the State Act until 2026, clarified the roles of the Office Director and the 
Division Director, extended the terms of Commission members to four years and 
authorized the Division Director to discipline a licensee for medical or administrative 
reasons. 
 
Senate Bill 148 also added martial arts to the sports regulated under the State Act, and, 
in recognizing that the State Act regulated more than boxing, changed the names of 
the Commission and Office to “Colorado Combative Sports Commission” and “Office of 
Combative Sports” respectively. 
 
Finally, in 2000, the federal government amended the Federal Act by enacting the 
Muhammed Ali Boxing Reform Act to, among other things, protect boxers from 
