 
13 | P a g e 
In general, each boxing commission is required to establish procedures to:7 
 
• Evaluate the professional records and physician certification of each boxer, 
• Ensure that no boxer participates in a boxing match while under suspension from 
any boxing commission, 
• Review a suspension, and  
• Revoke a suspension. 
 
State boxing commissions are encouraged to follow the guidelines of the Association of 
Boxing Commissions (ABC) regarding minimum contractual provisions8 and the Federal 
Act contains provisions protecting boxers from coercive contracts.9 
 
Additionally, ABC is required to develop, and state boxing commissions and sanctioning 
bodies are encouraged to follow, guidelines for the objective and consistent ratings of 
professional boxers.10 
 
Sanctioning bodies are required to disclose to the state boxing commission responsible 
for regulating a particular match:11 
 
• All charges, fees and costs the sanctioning body will assess the boxers 
participating in a particular match; 
• All payments, benefits and fees the organization will receive for its affiliation 
with the event; and 
• Any additional information the state boxing commission may require. 
 
Promoters, in turn, are required to disclose to the state boxing commission responsible 
for regulating a professional match:12 
 
• Copies of any written agreements between the promoter and the boxers 
participating in a particular match; 
• All fees, charges and expenses that the promoter will assess on the boxers 
participating in a particular match; 
• All payments, gifts or benefits the promoter is providing to any sanctioning body; 
and 
• Any reduction in a boxer’s purse that is contrary to a previous agreement 
between the promoter and the boxer. 
 
Similarly, promoters are required to disclose to the boxers in a particular match:13 
 
 
7 15 U.S.C. § 6306(a) 
8 15 U.S.C. § 6307a. 
9 15 U.S.C. § 6307b. 
10 15 U.S.C. § 6307c(a). 
11 15 U.S.C. § 6307d. 
12 15 U.S.C. § 6307e(a). 
13 15 U.S.C. § 6307e(b). 
