 
14 | P a g e 
• The amount of any consideration that a promoter has contracted to receive from 
the match; 
• All fees, charges and expenses that the promoter will assess on the boxer; and 
• Any reduction in a boxer’s purse that is contrary to a previous agreement 
between the promoter and the boxer. 
 
Each boxer must register with the boxing commission of the state in which the boxer 
resides.14  Similarly, any person who arranges, promotes or organizes a boxing match 
must be approved by the state boxing commission responsible for regulating the 
particular match.15 
 
The Federal Act also addresses conflicts of interest for certain individuals.  In general:16 
 
• No member or employee of a state boxing commission may receive any 
compensation from any person who sanctions, arranges or promotes professional 
boxing matches or who has a financial interest in an active boxer; 
• No promoter may have a financial interest in the management of a boxer; 
• No manager may have a financial interest in the promotion of a boxer or be 
employed by or receive compensation from a promoter outside of amounts 
received as a result of the manager’s contract with the boxer; and 
• No sanctioning officer or employee of a sanctioning body may receive any 
compensation, gift or benefit from a promoter, boxer or manager. 
 
Violations of the Federal Act may be enjoined by the U.S. Attorney General and upon 
conviction of a knowing violation, may result in up to one year imprisonment, a fine of 
up to $100,000 depending on the nature of the violation and the individual involved, or 
both imprisonment and a fine. State attorneys general may seek similar remedies and 
any boxer who suffers economic injuries as a result of such a violation may file suit in 
the appropriate state or federal court.17 
 
Finally, no boxing match can be held in a state that does not have a boxing commission, 
unless it is supervised by a boxing commission from another state.18  Further, states 
may adopt or enforce provisions that supplement or are more stringent than, but that 
are also consistent with the Federal Act.19 
 
Colorado Law 
 
The Colorado Professional Boxing Safety Act (State Act) was enacted, in part, because 
there was no state boxing commission in Colorado at the time of its enactment, thus 
 
14 15 U.S.C. § 6305(a). 
15 15 U.S.C. § 6307h. 
16 15 U.S.C. § 6308. 
17 15 U.S.C. § 6309. 
18 15 U.S.C. § 6303(a). 
19 15 U.S.C. § 6313. 
