 
32 | P a g e 
Analysis and Recommendations 
 
The final sunset criterion questions whether administrative and statutory changes are 
necessary to improve agency operations to enhance the public interest. The 
recommendations that follow are offered in consideration of this criterion, in general, 
and any criteria specifically referenced in those recommendations. 
 
Recommendation 1 — Continue the Colorado Professional Boxing Safety Act 
for 11 years, until 2037. 
 
The Colorado Professional Boxing Safety Act (State Act) creates the Office of Combative 
Sports (Office) and the Combative Sports Commission (Commission) as Type 2 entities 
in the Division of Professions and Occupations (Division), 84 and it provides for the 
licensing and regulation of combative sports participants and various other industry 
participants.  In passing the State Act, the General Assembly found that doing so was 
“in the best interests of the residents of Colorado, professional boxing participants, and 
the future of the sport of boxing in Colorado.”  Further, the General Assembly found 
that regulation is necessary to “[p]rotect the safety of the participants; and [p]romote 
the public trust and confidence in the conduct of professional boxing.”85 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare.  When discussing combative sports, it is reasonable to ask 
this question as it pertains to both participants and the ticket-buying public. 
 
Participant safety can be broken down into two categories: physical and financial.  
Combative sports, by their very nature, involve violent physical contact with 
participants punching and kicking one another, depending on the particular sport 
involved.  The Commission’s rules, as mandated by the State Act, serve to protect the 
physical safety of participants by requiring that a licensed physician attend each match 
and by ensuring that participants are evenly matched, utilize appropriate safety 
equipment and follow the rules for their particular sport. 
 
Thus, there can be no question that the State Act serves to protect the physical safety 
of participants. 
 
The State Act and Commission rules also address, in general terms, guidelines for 
contracts and financial agreements between participants and promotors and 
requirements for insurance covering participants in case they are injured and the 
bonding of promoters to ensure contractual obligations are fulfilled. 
 
Thus, the State Act and Commission rules serve to protect the financial safety of 
participants. 
 
 
84 §§ 12-110-105 and -106, C.R.S. 
85 § 12-110-102(2), C.R.S. 
