 
33 | P a g e 
What is less obvious is how the State Act or Commission rules protect the public, as in 
those purchasing tickets to combative sports events.  The State Act and Commission 
rules address public safety by requiring physical barriers between the audience and the 
combative sports participants to ensure that the public does not venture too close to 
the event where they could be injured by flying bodily fluids or participants falling out 
of the ring.  Additionally, the State Act and Commission rules mandate the presence of 
security personnel at each regulated match to ensure that overly enthusiastic audience 
members do not themselves physically assault one another. 
 
Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the State Act and the Commission are 
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and should be 
continued. 
 
Additionally, the second sunset criterion asks whether the conditions that led to initial 
regulation have changed.  In passing the State Act, the General Assembly recognized 
that since Colorado had no boxing commission at the time, any professional boxing 
match held in the state had to be supervised by another state’s boxing commission, 
using that state’s safety provisions.86 
 
Colorado implemented the State Act to ensure that Colorado laws and rules, and not 
those of another state, would govern and protect combative sports events in Colorado.  
If the State Act were to sunset, professional combative sports events in Colorado would 
once again be dependent on the laws and rules of other states.  In other words, if the 
State Act were to sunset, Colorado would find itself in the same situation and with the 
same problems as when regulation was initially instituted.  Thus, continuation is 
warranted. 
 
Finally, the ninth sunset criterion inquires as to the economic impact of regulation.  
Large combative sports events can have a significant economic impact on the region in 
which they are held.  For example, in September 2024, Denver hosted an international 
event that generated an estimated $18 million in direct and indirect economic impact, 
with more than $15 million of that coming from out-of-state individuals and 
organizations.87 
 
While this was a single event, others have occurred in the past and may be less likely 
to occur in the future if there is no State Act or Commission and such events rely on 
the regulators of other states to ensure that they happen.  Thus, the State Act has a 
positive economic impact on the state and should be continued. 
 
As such, some maintain that the State, and in particular the Commission or the Division, 
should play a more active role in promoting the state to the national and international 
combative sports communities in an effort to bring more such events to Colorado.  While 
the economic impact of such events is attractive, requiring the regulator to promote 
 
86 § 12-110-102(1), C.R.S. 
87 Metro Denver EDC and Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce.  Economic Impact of ONE 168.  Retrieved April 8, 
2025, from www.metrodenver.org/sites/default/files/2025-01/ONEFC%20Economic%20Impact_121024.pdf 
