 
34 | P a g e 
the growth of the industry it purports to regulate is fraught with perils, particularly 
potential conflicts of interest. 
 
The Commission and Division regulate combative sports to ensure the health and safety 
of participants and the public, not to generate revenue for the state.  If such were to 
become the case, the regulator could easily find itself in the untenable position of 
having to discipline a licensee it recruited to the state in the first place, or worse, it 
could overlook certain regulatory requirements in order to obtain the economic benefit 
such an event might provide. 
 
Thus, such efforts should be resisted.  However, there is nothing to prevent the business 
community from assuming the mantle of promoting the state as a location for such 
events.  Indeed, such a task is more appropriately performed by the business 
community, as opposed to the State. 
 
Finally, it is worth noting that concurrently with this sunset review, the Division also 
underwent a sunset review.  Recommendations in the sunset report of the Division will 
likely impact the administration of the State Act, as those recommendations will have 
Division-wide impact.  Such recommendations were made in the sunset report of the 
Division, as opposed to individual programmatic reports, to ensure consistency and 
cohesion in policy implementation across the Division. 
 
For all these reasons, the State Act, and along with it the Office and the Commission, 
should be continued for 11 years, until 2037.  Although this sunset report contains 
several recommendations that might argue in favor of a shorter continuation period, it 
also builds in flexibility for the Commission to address the changing landscape of 
combative sports, thereby justifying a longer continuation period. 
 
 
Recommendation 2 — Direct the Office Director to gather safety data related 
to combative sports and Direct the Commission to consider such data when 
amending or adopting rules. 
 
Recommendation 1 of this sunset report recognizes that regulation of combative sports 
is necessary to protect the health and safety of participants.  Toward this end, the 
Division gathers data from each combative sporting event, including data on the: 
 
• Type of event, 
• Participants’ approved weights and any changes in weight between weigh-in and 
the day of the event, 
• Participants’ gender, 
• Number of rounds that actually occurred, 
• Judges scores, and 
• Results of the event. 
 
