 
35 | P a g e 
All of this can help to identify various trends across events, types of events and 
individual judges and participants. 
 
A statutory mandate to collect such data and to use it in rulemaking will help to ensure 
that future Commissions and others involved in rulemaking will continue to consider the 
health and safety of participants while promulgating rules. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the health, 
safety and welfare of the public.  Continuing to gather, analyze and use safety-related 
data during future rulemaking proceedings will help to ensure that the health and safety 
of participants remains the focus of regulation. 
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should direct the Office Director to gather safety data 
related to combative sports and direct the Commission to consider such data when 
amending or adopting rules. 
 
 
Recommendation 3 — Change the name of the State Act to “Colorado 
Combative Sports Safety Act,” authorize the Commission to identify, in rule, 
those combative sports to which the State Act applies and clarify that a 
participant is one who engages in a combative sport regulated by the 
Commission. 
 
When the General Assembly passed the State Act in 2000, boxing and kickboxing were 
the dominant combative sports and were, therefore, specifically addressed in the State 
Act.  In fact, the only combative sport identified in the title of the State Act itself is 
professional boxing. 
 
However, since 2000, numerous other combative sports have grown in popularity and 
come within the jurisdiction of the Commission, including mixed martial arts and Muy 
Thai. 
 
The only combative sports defined in the State Act are boxing,88 kickboxing, martial 
arts and mixed martial arts.  Boxing is defined as: 
 
fighting, striking, forcing an opponent to submit, or disabling an 
opponent, including the disciplines of kickboxing, mixed martial arts, and 
martial arts.89 
 
Kickboxing is defined as “engaging in martial arts fighting techniques using the hands 
and feet, the object of which is to win by a decision, knockout, or technical 
knockout.”90 
 
88 § 12-110-104(2), C.R.S. 
89 § 12-110-104(2), C.R.S. 
90 § 12-110-104(6), C.R.S. 
