 
36 | P a g e 
Martial arts are defined as “any of several arts of combat or self-defense that are widely 
practiced as a sport.” 91 
 
Mixed martial arts are defined as “the combined techniques of boxing and martial arts 
disciplines such as grappling, kicking, and striking, including the use of full, 
unrestrained physical force.” 92 
 
Finally, a “match,” over which the State Act has jurisdiction, is defined as 
 
a professional boxing contest or exhibition, the object of which is to win 
by a decision, knockout, or technical knockout and includes an event, 
engagement, sparing or practice session, show, or program where the 
public is admitted and there is intended to be physical contact.93 
 
It is by piecing together these various definitions that combative sports such as Muy 
Thai, which is not specifically addressed in the State Act, fall within the jurisdiction of 
the State Act and Commission rules. 
 
Similarly, the State Act defines a boxer as “an individual who participates in a boxing 
match,”94 and it defines a participant as “a person who engages in a match as a boxing 
contestant.”95  Thus, it is necessary to follow the same chain of definitions discussed 
above to conclude that individuals who are not traditional boxers are also regulated 
under the State Act. 
 
To clarify who is regulated under the State Act, it would be reasonable to repeal 
references and definitions that focus on boxing only and instead define a participant as 
one who engages in a combative sport regulated by the Commission.  In doing so, the 
General Assembly should also update references throughout the State Act to be 
consistent with this approach. 
 
The second sunset criterion asks whether conditions that led to initial regulation have 
changed.  Today, the Act and Commission regulate much more than professional boxing, 
so conditions have changed and they warrant statutory clarification. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion asks, among other things, whether agency operations are 
impeded by existing statutes.  Although the Office and the Commission have 
successfully asserted jurisdiction over combative sports not specifically enumerated in 
the State Act, the State Act could be clearer by specifying that it applies to combative 
sports identified by the Commission in rule. 
 
 
91 § 12-110-104(7), C.R.S. 
92 § 12-110-104(9), C.R.S. 
93 § 12-110-104(8), C.R.S. 
94 § 12-110-104(1), C.R.S. 
95 § 12-110-104(12), C.R.S. 
