 
37 | P a g e 
Clarification may also serve to protect the public and, more directly, combative sports 
participants by clearly alerting them that the State Act applies to more than 
professional boxing and boxers, as the name and definitions now imply. 
 
For all these reasons, the Geneal Assembly should rename the State Act the “Colorado 
Professional Combative Sports Safety Act,” authorize the Commission to identify, by 
rule, those sports that fall within the jurisdiction of the State Act and Commission rules 
and clarify that a participant is one who engages in a combative sport regulated by the 
Commission.  Doing so will help to identify and clarify that the State Act encompasses 
more than just boxing and it will enable the Commission to assert its jurisdiction over 
combative sports, and their participants, as they evolve and grow in popularity. 
 
 
Recommendation 4 — Elevate the physician members of the Commission to 
voting members. 
 
The Commission consists of five voting members and two nonvoting advisory members.  
All must be residents of Colorado, be of good moral character and not have been 
convicted of any felony or combative sports-related offenses.96 
 
There are no additional qualifications for the five voting members.  However, the two 
nonvoting members must be licensed physicians, and they are required to 
 
advise the Commission on matters concerning the health and physical 
conditions of boxers and health issues relating to the conduct of matches.  
The nonvoting members may prepare and submit to the Commission for 
its consideration and approval any rules that in their judgement will 
safeguard the physical welfare of the participants engage in boxing. 97 
 
As noted in Recommendation 1 of this sunset report, one of the main reasons combative 
sports are regulated in Colorado is to ensure participant safety.  Yet the two members 
of the Commission most qualified to perform this task, and who are specifically directed 
to consider such matters and make recommendations to the Commission on them, have 
no vote on the Commission. 
 
There appears to be no valid public policy reason as to why the two physicians on the 
Commission are advisory only and are unable to vote. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation serves to protect the public health, 
safety and welfare, and the seventh criterion asks, among other things, whether the 
board adequately represents the public interest. 
 
 
96 § 12-110-106(2)(a), C.R.S. 
97 § 12-110-106(2)(IV), C.R.S. 
