 
38 | P a g e 
Recommendation 1 concludes that regulation is necessary, yet the two members of the 
Commission best suited to address participant safety are not able to vote on such issues.  
Thus, their status as nonvoting advisory members does not protect participant safety 
as much as it could.  Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that the Commission, as it 
is currently constituted, does not adequately represent the public interest. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should elevate the two nonvoting physician 
members of the Commission to full Commission members with voting rights equal to 
their non-physician counterparts. 
 
The two current physician members of the Commission are highly regarded and 
respected.  So, this recommendation should not be interpreted as disparaging the five 
voting members of the Commission.  It simply highlights a hole in the regulatory 
framework. 
 
 
Recommendation 5 — Specify that the physician members of the Commission 
hold licenses issued by the Colorado Medical Board and have experience or 
training in emergency medicine, sports medicine or combative sports. 
 
The Commission consists of five voting members and two nonvoting advisory members.98  
The two nonvoting members must be licensed physicians, and they are required to 
 
advise the Commission on matters concerning the health and physical 
conditions of boxers and health issues relating to the conduct of matches.  
The nonvoting members may prepare and submit to the Commission for 
its consideration and approval any rules that in their judgement will 
safeguard the physical welfare of the participants engage in boxing.99 
 
There are no other provisions in the State Act relating to the physician members of the 
Commission.  There is no requirement that they be licensed in Colorado and there is no 
requirement that they have any experience or training in a relevant specialty such as 
emergency medicine, sports medicine or combative sports. 
 
The seventh sunset criterion asks, among other things, whether the composition of the 
board or commission adequately represents the public interest. 
 
Recommendation 1 of this sunset report concludes that regulation is necessary to 
protect the public health, safety and welfare, thereby serving the public interest.  
However, the composition of the Board could further advance the public interest in at 
least two ways. 
 
 
98 § 12-110-106(2)(a), C.R.S. 
99 § 12-110-106(2)(IV), C.R.S. 
