 
39 | P a g e 
First, most practice acts that require board or commission members to hold professional 
licenses require those licenses to be issued by the State of Colorado.  This makes sense 
from the standpoint that such individuals are appointed to serve on a body of the State. 
 
Second, combative sports is a unique activity where participants physically assault one 
another, and the physicians who practice in this area have specialized knowledge and 
training.  While most physicians focus on injury avoidance, those working in combative 
sports must decide, through pre-fight physicals and ring-side observations, who is 
qualified to take damage and how much they can take.  If a physician lacks combative 
sports experience, how can they advise the Commission on combative sports safety 
issues? 
 
Not surprisingly, private certification is available, through the Association of Ringside 
Physicians (ARP).  Although no specific training is required to take and pass ARP’s 
examination, ARP offers an 18-hour course that examinees are encouraged to complete 
prior to taking the examination. 
 
ARP certification is highlighted here to illustrate that combative sports is a specialized 
area of practice.  Since there are only a handful of physicians in Colorado who hold the 
certification, requiring it as a condition of service on the Commission is impractical, 
and not justified. 
 
However, requiring the Commission’s physician members to have some experience in 
emergency medicine, sports medicine or combative sports will help to enhance 
participant safety. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should require that the Commission’s 
physician members hold licenses issued by the Colorado Medical Board and have 
experience or training in emergency medicine, sports medicine or combative sports. 
 
To be sure, the two current physician members of the Commission are highly regarded 
and respected and both have extensive experience in combative sports medicine.  So, 
this recommendation should not be interpreted as disparaging them in any way.  It is 
offered simply to ensure that future Commission members are as highly qualified as the 
current two. 
 
 
Recommendation 6 — Eliminate potential conflicts of interest among 
promoters, managers and matchmakers. 
 
The federal Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996, as amended (Federal Act), addresses 
conflicts of interest among promoters (and by extension their matchmakers) and 
managers by making it unlawful for 
 
(A) A promoter to have a direct or indirect financial interest in the 
management of a boxer; or (B) a manger (i) to have a direct or indirect 
