 
40 | P a g e 
financial interest in the promotion of a boxer; or (ii) to be employed by 
or receive compensation or other benefits from a promoter except for 
amounts received as consideration under the manager’s contract with the 
boxer.100 
 
This helps to ensure that managers and promoters (and by extension, the promoter’s 
matchmakers) do not collude to defraud a participant or to improperly match 
participants. 
 
Importantly, the Federal Act applies to professional boxing only.  This conflict of 
interest does not apply to other combative sports. 
 
The first sunset criterion asks whether regulation is necessary to protect the public 
health, safety and welfare. 
 
Recommendation 1 of this sunset report concludes the regulation is necessary to protect 
the financial welfare of participants.  As the Federal Act’s protections serve this 
purpose but are limited to boxers only, they should be incorporated into the State Act. 
 
For all these reasons, the General Assembly should adopt the Federal Act’s conflict of 
interest provisions and define the terms “manager” and “matchmaker” to be consistent 
with those in the Federal Act. 
 
 
Recommendation 7 — Include in the grounds for discipline, failure to respond 
to the allegations of a complaint within the length of time specified in the 
Division Director’s letter. 
 
When the Office receives a complaint against a licensee, staff sends the complaint to 
the licensee, thus enabling them to respond to the allegations.  However, in at least 
one case in 2025, a licensee failed to respond to the allegations and the Division 
Director issued a letter of admonition.  
 
Currently, there is no statutory basis that requires a licensee to provide a timely 
response to the allegations, which may slow down disciplinary proceedings since a 
response is often required before the Division Director can take any action. These delays 
may place the public at risk when complaints are related to serious allegations, and the 
respondent may be able to continue to operate while the Office awaits a response. 
 
Two types of letters are typically sent by the Division Director to inform a licensee that 
a complaint has been filed against them: either a 30-day letter or, in critical 
circumstances in which the allegation involves public safety, a 10-day letter.  Each 
letter clearly identifies the time frame (either 30 days or 10 days) within which a 
 
100 15 U.S.C. § 6308(b)(1) 
