 
41 | P a g e 
licensee is required to respond, as well as additional information regarding the 
allegations. 
 
The tenth and fourteenth sunset criteria ask, 
 
Whether complaint, investigation, and disciplinary procedures adequately 
protect the public and whether final dispositions of complaints are in the 
public interest or self-serving to the profession or regulated entity; and 
 
Whether administrative and statutory changes are necessary to improve 
agency operations to enhance the public interest. 
 
By adding failure to respond to a complaint as a violation of the State Act, a response 
not received within the timeframe specified would allow the Division Director to take 
action to prevent potential public harm through the initiation of formal disciplinary 
proceedings when required.   
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should include in the grounds for discipline, failure to 
respond to the allegations of a complaint within the length of time specified in the 
Division Director’s letter. 
 
 
Recommendation 8 — Repeal the requirement that letters of admonition be 
sent by certified mail. 
 
Section 12-110-111(2)(b)(IV), C.R.S., requires the Office to send a letter of admonition 
(LOA) to a licensee via certified mail.  Certified mail is a service offered by the U.S. 
Postal Service, and its purpose is to provide delivery confirmation.  For example, when 
the Office sends an LOA to a licensee via certified mail, the Office receives confirmation 
that the letter was delivered.  However, a certified letter does not guarantee the letter 
was reviewed by the recipient.  Sending a letter via certified mail is more costly than 
sending a letter via first class priority mail. 
 
The fifth sunset criterion questions, in part, whether the agency’s operation is impeded 
or enhanced by existing statutes, rules, and procedures. 
 
The sixth sunset criterion questions whether the agency performs its statutory duties 
efficiently and effectively. 
 
LOAs are the only form of discipline that the State Act requires to be sent via certified 
mail.  This process is inconsistent with other practice acts in Colorado, creates an 
unnecessary administrative burden and is more costly than readily available 
alternatives.   
 
Therefore, the General Assembly should repeal the requirement that the Division 
Director send an LOA via certified mail.  Doing so removes an unnecessary requirement 
that is both more costly for the Division Director and inconsistent with other practice 
acts. 
